CLIENT: Alright, what do you think?
CLIENT: I just didn't shave, I had a cold. So of course I left here and was that Friday, I don't know what the fuck day, it's Wednesday.
CLIENT: That was Monday. So I left here and Kelly and I texted, you know, and I was totally myself, she was like "how are you, what's going on" whatever, and I said "how was your weekend", whatever. I was like "well I saw a bunch of my friends and there's some people looking forward to meeting you. [00:01:06] So, she was like "Yay, you know, exclamation mark". So I definitely spent the rest of Monday just, like I said in here, just kinda like (pause) perfectly happy with that situation, but realizing it has nothing to do with that situation. So...(pause) I mean I'm still being, like, after she said I was so like happy (laugh) I was like (laugh) leave it at that (ph). So I haven't texted her since Monday, figure I'll leave her, obviously tomorrow, but (pause). So there were a few things. One was even before I felt that relief, when I got to the Starsucks (ph) there at the Center (ph), I did feel a little bit, not better, but I felt like I was kind of coaching myself better. [00:02:27] I just found that I was somehow feeling, I can't explain it exactly but I sensed a little bit more, I was like, "alright, whatever man". Oh, I, especially (inaudible). When I was like "oh, that's what it was". Because I was like "when some friends, people (inaudible)". She didn't respond to that immediately. We were going back and forth and on that one I didn't hear, so then I was like "Oh shit, did I say too much, like I have friends that want to meet you." So that part, then I was good, I stopped it. And of course then I heard from her like five hours, whatever, she's like "yay!". So it's just, I gotta just chill out with that. The more I realize it's not having anything to do with (pause). It was good too because I was happy but I didn't get too happy, you know what I mean? Because now I know this is nothing to do with anything, my excitement, or my whatever anxiety...
CLIENT: Despair...have nothing to do with this girl and and texting, you know? [00:03:45] I mean I really want it to work out but that has nothing to do with being so sad or so happy. So now it's good, it felt kinda, I can't explain it, but something in me was like "alright". Maybe because I saw it for what it was, made me feel better, just that made me feel better. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I reminded myself, so right now, it's great, I heard that. But again next week she could decide she doesn't want to be with me. Next year, in two weeks, that's never gonna end, you know what I mean? Like I need to somehow, really get over that because someone could be getting back to you non-stop and then all of the sudden for some reason they're not. Things do happen and I don't mean that in a negative way, just mean it in like (pause). I think it's important in life to be able to handle either way, good stuff and bad stuff, as level headed as you can be. [00:05:15] (pause)
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, things (inaudible).
CLIENT: Jobs, bosses, any kind of interpersonal anything. Just can't (pause). And it's also a flip side of, you also have to allow yourself to enjoy when things are going well without getting too euphoric, you know what I mean? You can't be in a constant state of bracing yourself for (pause). So in that way it was good, I felt like Monday I was myself, I was texting her, it was all good and I felt you know (pause)
CLIENT: A little bit, I mean it's not day and night, but a little bit [00:06:55]. (pause) So the more you see the absurdity of your behavior, that helps to not, with me, helps not to act that way as much, you know what I mean? (pause)
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, it's just, I mean that's definitely just as much a fantasy as all the other fantasies of my life, you know, about like women, (inaudible) or music, you know what I mean? [00:08:23] It was funny because I was actually, Monday night I went to Dave's so we could finish the record you know. So it was totally subconscious but I think while I was there I felt so much more, I mean I always feel comfortable with Dave, he's one of my best friends but I felt extra comfortable because I was like "yeah, I wouldn't want this life." He's completely broke, you know, his girlfriend shafted him over the summer, like what (inaudible). It's like I'm looking for something that's not there, I'm looking for someone to be a brother figure or a father figure or you know what I mean? He's just a friend of mine so...
CLIENT: Yeah giving him, what's the word? I can't think of the word, when you give someone credit but you, fuck, what's that word? You designate?
CLIENT: No you, like being cool or being stoic I give those qualities to him, I hate that. (laugh) Anyway, I give him credit for these things that may or may not be there but regardless they're not things up on a pedestal and they're not things that I don't have I just think I don't have them. That's the whole other thing is that. Of course I forget all the times people have told me how well I handle things, and I'm always calm and I give such great advice . I forget all that.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: Attributes? Damn.
CLIENT: That whole cool, kind of aloof, it's as if things don't bother him and because of that he's...that part of me feels like that's why he's more attractive to people than you are. He kind of just doesn't care at all, all this shit, and it's nonsense, of course he cares, he was a wreck, his girlfriend dumped him over the summer... Again it's the idea that even though we're the exact same age I think he's older, you know what I mean? He's somehow more something, I don't even know what it is. So... and that's generally what I do without a lot of my guy friends, not all, but generally, that somehow they're living life more or something, they're in it more. I don't know what that means. (pause)
CLIENT: Totally, yeah totally. Like women, certainly guys. It's not with all women (ph), it's not with all my guy friends I have some guy friends that I don't think about that but yeah some friends I think it might be connected to some music things or artistic things or not that it involves them, nothing, I mean it's not artistically....He's the one that's always saying you know "I can't believe how amazing these songs sound. You somehow write songs all the time." It's more that he somehow, or somehow that makes me feel somehow worse or something. Then I feel like "yeah I do do all of that and look at me? [00:12:50] Should I be doing better?" Maybe there's a little bit of that, you know what I mean? Or there's the sense of, that yeah, somehow he's more together... I don't know, I don't know what it is? With other guys it's more antagonistic (ph), not with friends, but if Dave and I are out and we see acquaintances, it's more like "these fucking hipster dufuses" (sp), they just seem so kinda carefree, they're so excited because they're doing some bullshit thing, you know what I mean? It's something about that, again I know that I'm projecting because who knows what the fuck those people are going through? But I'm definitely projecting and also because I seem the same way to them. Right? It's nonsense. "What are you up to? ‘Well I just played in The City'..." Right, they could be saying the same thing but, you know, it's just the way I feel. [00:13:50] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I just thought of one story, about when Dave was going through a really hard time, we were hanging out like every night and went to this shitty bar and all the sudden, I hate it (ph), but went to this shitty bar there. It was fun, we were having a good time, but I was also kind of in a bad place, I wasn't feeling quite as good as I feel right now or as I've been feeling, or maybe it was just that day, I don't know what it was but we ran into this guy we know and he and Dave started talking and I felt left out and so when they were done talking and the guy left and whatever I was like, pissed and I went off, was like "fuck".
CLIENT: Not on Dave, but I went off. I vented, I vented.
CLIENT: No, no, no, not about Dave, cause it wasn't about Dave, I just felt like that guy was kind of ignoring me and wasn't including me and you know I was like, fuck this, you know, all this stuff. [00:15:10] (laughs) Dave was like "oh man, I'm sorry, it's just, you know we were talking about my ex because he knows her". They were talking about something that just was personal kind of and you know, include me in what? (ph) He's wasn't being an asshole he was just talking to Dave about something serious that Dave's going through and he knows his ex and I guess he had hooked up with Dave's ex years ago. There's some history there so I took something that had nothing to do with me, you know and I made it about me, and I just, that's my mom's side, you know, that's, I don't like that. That was a good...It doesn't mean I love that guy, I still think that guys a little bit whatever, but the point is that he's not going out of his way, he always says hi to me, he's a nice guy. It's like...
CLIENT: Yeah, deliberate. Every time I've seen him he goes out of his way to say hello, come on, he might be a bit of a dope or whatever but no more or less than me if you look at it from the outside right? They don't know me, that guy doesn't really know me well. You know what I mean? Like I always have this sense that I'm the one, again set outside, when I go to the bar, well that's not always the case but...And in certain settings I'm the one whose the outsider and it's like the cool kids in high school and they've somehow let me in but I'm not completely in. [00:16:41] I still do feel like musically, I still feel that way a little bit, you know I, but now I'm getting better at reminding myself that it's not personal, that's a small town and it's cliquey, you know, and indie rock is cliquier than other cliques and it's just people and their cool little friends and their cool little bands. That started actually motivating me, now I feel like that instead of it like making me so angry, now it's just motivating. It's like well I don't know, I just played a great show in the city on a Saturday night so, I don't...But (pause) Anyway that's the bottom line a lot of times, or not a lot of times, there's just certain situations where that voice comes up and I just feel kinda like yeah these people are all being nice to me but (pause)...like I'm a second tier person, you know what I mean? [00:17:51]
CLIENT: So...
CLIENT: Not only that but I'm realizing now that that's the sad part. Right now I'm realizing not only just because it's a 99 percent of the time that seems to be the case, that's what the sadness is about. Like, pretty much every fucking time I'm wrong. What if I come in here and say "yeah I was feeling blah blah blah" and then I was right? That's like never happened, you know. So I mean I do think I'm kinda good at reading people but in terms of when I really feel something, that's nine out of ten its way off, way off. [00:18:56]
CLIENT: Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you...
CLIENT: I mean that was what high school was like, I've told you right (inaudible). I was like "oh my god, people like me."
CLIENT: It was because I didn't go to their parties, I didn't hang out with them, I didn't you know. Same with my first year in college, you know. Not to mention more and more I realize now that these are people I don't necessarily want to be friends with anyway, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah but I want to be friends with like alcoholics and just because I think, or a part of me thinks they're somehow cooler than me? I mean, they're not cool. I see that now but... [00:20:16] It's crazy, it's crazy. I definitely see it more and more, I mean, for example when I go with Dave to certain bars, it's not Dave that gets the special treatment, I get the special treatment. The bartenders know me, you know, they treat me nice, they ask me how I'm doing, you know, they'll give me a special coosi (sp) for my fucking beer that they don't give other people so (laughs) I mean, that's my fault for not being able to see things for what they are. In the past I'd be like "yeah they just want tips", I've kind of, there could be some truth to that but, you know, at the same time (pause). You know, I remember one time I was thinking that on my way home, I was like "what am I saying?" My tips for my Buds? They're selling fucking fancy drinks left and right...I go there to drink Bud and they're always fucking nice to me, they're always like sweet, they're, so they're that bad? These people are that bad that they're just, you know what I mean? [00:21:37] Like when I really stop to think about it, I was like just for the extra few dollar tip on fucking Budweiser's, I was like come on man, that's like beyond cynical, you know? It's actually the opposite, they're doing that to the other people, that they don't know that well, who are getting expensive drinks, who are kinda douchey (sp), that's who they're doing that to, you know? It's the exact inverse, you know what I mean? When I go there, they're happy because I'm a nice guy, I go there with nice friends, we have nice chats, we talk about music and just life. It's like, it's very, that's my mom's side, you know, that's very, no matter how nice you might be, I can't let you, you know? Like here, it's like, oh well, at the end of the day it's about money, it's her job, it's like everything I find a way to, or if I let myself.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, or that any, when I go out and see people I know, if we're not tight, tight friends that deep down I'll feel like, you know? [00:22:57] I don't know, I'll just be suspect a little bit of stuff. It's gotten way, way, way, way, way, way better but...(pause).
CLIENT: I mean I don't know if it is as much anymore, but yeah, that's a (pause), yeah, definitely in any case, in any situation, it's always looking...I mean, I remember, I don't know if I told you but when I first got back, I had a rough few months, you know, I felt very, I felt like Jason was being weird. I felt like he was, "did we talk about?" Yeah, so even there, you know, it's like "dude he's not my dad, you know, he's not my dad." He's a, he has a very, very busy, full life. [00:24:05] And also I'm the one that left, right? I mean I was his star guy, and I left. I had good reason to leave but, so, he was being friendly, but not overly friendly. And again it was like "so what?" It was that idea that I was feeling, but yeah that's it, "I'll never publish another book again, like what am I saying?" You know it's like this very infantile...
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, but it's like "what am I saying", I already did get published so... I already have a foot in the door in general, like now I can go to a different publisher if I want, like yeah I'm not out of nowhere, this is what I've...you know not only that Jason is still Jason, if I have him a manuscript that's just as good as what I wrote before he's gonna be like (inaudible) you know what I mean? It's just, you know, I wanted him to like take an extra interest in the real stuff that he did a little bit when I first got there, the first time. But even that, even if I'd have stayed those things can't be forever, you know what I mean? [00:26:21] That was initially, I was excited, he was excited, he probably wanted me to feel comfortable and all that. But the guy's not gonna adopt me or something.
CLIENT: Funny thing though, is like I was thinking, like the one hump I'm still not able to get, I think I'll get over, I don't know why it's taking so long and it's excruciating, is that I still can't take advantage of my time to be more productive, it's just not happening. Like lately with work, our meetings, we've had a couple of meeting, those got canceled and I'm literally doing like nothing. I'm fine with that, it's all good, but I feel stupid for not taking advantage of that time. I mean, you know what I mean? I don't know what that is about anymore, I don't, I don't understand it, I don't understand it. You know what I mean? To me that's very strange, like no one's bothering me. I have a department, like things are in the right place, you know what I mean? I have a job.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, so that's what I'm assuming again but although that's odd to me. I feel like a lot of, that should make me want to write in a way, to get stuff... I don't know, I don't know what it is. [00:29:36] It's really bothering me. I don't understand it. I even kind of try sometimes, like I'll open a file or I'll sometimes I'll like try to like write an e-mail to myself, like little tricks to try to get me to write and just, I don't know. And it can't be that I have nothing, there's like nothing, cause there's just not, there's a lot to write, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. It's not, it's just not getting into, I feel like with writing there has to be something regular about it. [00:30:57] Otherwise, it's actually more frustrating, I'd rather just not do it, you know what I mean? It's not like music to me, you know? There has to be something, because it really is just a zone you go to a place and you can't just keep, it's to....I don't know what the word is. It's too like schizophrenic to keep like a little bit here and then not, and then a little bit and then not, and then just like all over the place. I don't know.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. I don't understand anymore, I don't know.
CLIENT: I mean I'm at Starsucks (ph) all day doing nothing right? So yeah I'll be like "okay, how about writing a little bit?" It's like I don't go, "gosh I should be writing here all day." I know enough to know that a page, I'd be happy with a fucking page you know? Doesn't happen. [00:32:01]
CLIENT: I don't know.
CLIENT: I have no idea. I think why, I worry, I've tried that in the past, I don't do it.
CLIENT: I don't know.
CLIENT: That's what I'm trying... I don't know, I don't know what the deal is. I don't know what, I don't know if I'm scared to do it, I'm, my brain is too full so I don't know what to start with, I don't know what to say. I don't know. Like I'm all over the place, I don't know if I should write a poem or just write a straight-forward, like history or you know what I mean, of my, or write a novel...like I think I'm just all over the place when it comes to that. Either that or those are excuses not to write, I have no idea, I don't know, I don't know anymore. It doesn't make any fucking sense. [00:33:07]
CLIENT: I think the easiest thing to finish would be, not easiest, but I feel like the next book of poems should be done by now you know? Just should be done.
CLIENT: Yeah, I've got like 50 pages. Most poetry manuscripts are like 40-60 pages but the problem is a lot of those I don't like anymore. I feel like I'm changing and I, so there's that, but also just I feel like I don't know why I'm not able to just write a straight-forward, just to document things. Do you know what I mean? That's really weird to me that I can't do that, just for myself. Be like "okay, my mom's family got on a boat from Beirut to Armenia on this date and this is what happened." Not for literary value just to...[00:34:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, and I'm not able to do that, I'm not.
CLIENT: I feel like the sentences are stupid and I feel like it's boring, I feel like who cares. I don't, I mean I don't know if that's exactly what I'm thinking but something just...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think that's why I've never been able to keep journals or anything. I can't just be free, like I love looking at other people's journals, you know? They're so...you know? Lists and sketches and just doodles and everything, you know, who cares? I cannot fucking do that. I can't do it. I've bought so many journals and just, there's nothing. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, remember I've said before like it literally feels like a block, like something is, like, yeah. Yeah, because I know myself, I know there's plenty to write, plenty. [00:35:22] There's something about not allowing myself to just write shitty pages, write shit that I'm not gonna keep, you know? Then write a poem, then not write a poem, then write a couple pages of something else, like who cares? That's the process you know? That's what I do with music. When I sit down I play something, then I play something else, then I come back to that then I...that's no problem but for some reason with writing it's like fucking pulling hair, pulling teeth.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: No, that's true. [00:36:40]
CLIENT: It's true. (pause) I mean, all I can think is, the only thing that all of these things have in common is that, you know, you're vulnerable if you do any of those things. Right? If you sit down, you just write, write, write you know, you're vulnerable. If you come in here and you follow something all the way to the end you're vulnerable. That's the only commonality I can see, you know what I mean? So that's what I'm saying maybe it's a fear thing, you know? I'm scared to write a great book, I'm scared to just I don't know, I have no idea cause I can't think of what ...It'd be different if I was like ‘I can't think of any ideas, I don't know what to write" you know? That's not the case, you know? [00:38:11] So all I can think is that something is finding a way to get me not to accomplish that so then, then it can say "see" or something I guess so that I can be like "ah, you suck" you know or something.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Well I think that's the thing too, I think with writing maybe that's the thing, especially with prose that, you know, maybe something in me doesn't want to go to that place, you know what I mean? Who wants to sit around writing all the details of how their father died or about all these bad things about them, you know? It's just a lot, it's a lot you know? So maybe there's just something in me that finds a way to (pause)...[00:39:34] That's probably the same with exercise, you know? I'll be all healthy and stronger, whatever, that doesn't fit with the voice that says "yeah a bigger (ph) and ugly loser, you know what I mean? So I can't see being all healthy and fit and athletic that doesn't make any sense you know? It's like this weird, I mean, again I'm assuming that it's something like that you know?
CLIENT: Cause really what's, I know myself, you know, I know, ten or twenty minutes on the treadmill is nothing you know, so that doesn't make any reasonable sense to me, to not get some exercise (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, well, yeah, yeah...I think it's almost the opposite, I think it's that I think that part of me won't know what to do, it'll be like, I almost can't even, you know what I mean? Like "oh shit, I actually wrote a novel, oh shit, I run every day" that it's like what does that voice have left? You know what I mean? [00:41:35]
CLIENT: It either confirms, I'm sure on some level, it's just more comfortable, you know what I mean? I'm in my comfort zone, you know? But if I got out of that it's like, then what do I have? You know it's like remember when I was saying all those things, "I'm a poet, what do you know I just got published by the most prestigious...", then what, you now what I mean? I think there's something, there's like, what's called? Cognitive dissonance? I don't know if that's what this is but there's like a disconnect between, it's like I don't know what to do with doing well, you know? So I think something in me finds ways to...I mean how easy is it to just send poems to journals? Right? Especially these days, it takes a second, everything's electronic you know? I don't do that. Why? [00:42:38] It doesn't make any sense right? I can't find one reasonable explanation except that there's something that's saying "yeah but then what?" Then you start getting published here and there, what does that mean? Like what then? Like that means you're out of your comfort zone, that means you're, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: You know I think, you know there's nothing more (sighs), I don't know, like kind of devastating and yet liberating at the same time then knowing that the only thing keeping you back is you, you know? I think that's, the more layers I peel, it's like "Jesus." I mean....(pause) [00:46:24]
CLIENT: Okay, Monday at?
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. So Monday at 9:10?
CLIENT: Okay. (whispering). Thanks (inaudible)
CLIENT: (Overlapping voices) Yeah, there's a site that when people that forget they have some savings account from ten years ago.
CLIENT: Anyway. (pause) So I'm just glad it didn't completely derail me. (pause)
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Sure, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) There's a context in which you make bad decisions.
CLIENT: You know what I mean? So, I get that I'm angry at the context, but my bad decision a bad or no decision. When you're not proactive about something, you're not being proactive about something. That's all there is to it. So, no absolutely. That's why yeah, I think that's why I'm not that upset. [00:11:00] That's -
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, it just would have been rage and depression.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, yeah. That's exactly it. Yeah, I don't feel that way. I just feel like I'm one of millions of people that's defaulted on their loans and stuff like this -
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Or even the worst part is, then you do learn, but then it's already too late. Then I was already on the track. I was already doing a Ph.D. You know what I mean? There wasn't Then you're already in the system. Or, you've already chosen some kind of path that then you're like; what do I do? I just drop out of grad school, or what? [00:11:59] People are telling me I should at least finish because then I'll have a Ph.D. But the Ph.D. is nothing anymore. Like I it's just a cluster fuck kind of whirlpool that you get stuck in. So but yeah no. I totally it's my fault.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah. Right, yeah
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) No.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right, right, right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right, right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Oh yeah. Yeah, no, if I could go back I don't think I'd even go to grad school at all. Like any of my grad degrees. I don't think I would.
CLIENT: I don't I well, that's I mean that's difficult to say in retrospect because obviously it changed my life to go there, but I mean I don't know. When I've talked to my friends about this, it's difficult because (Clears throat) my friends would be like; Yeah, right. You shouldn't have gone to that school. And in a way they are right. I mean, it's on my CV (ph). I might have not gotten this job. You know these douchebags went to the Ed school and it is what it is. I think it does open some doors, but (pause) Yeah, I don't know. I think it's I think it's just a very messy kind of thing. I think higher education has become a very Because yeah, it does help, but if you're not careful, stuff like this can happen too. Where you're just constantly worrying about stuff. [00:14:00]
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right, at least that. Right, right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right, right. Right, right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Just being swept up and yeah.
CLIENT: Yep, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. [15.06] (pause) It's a bummer. It's I mean, that that money going to make a difference. I would have been able to breathe. Because then I could just that put that aside. And it just then I'd have my paychecks, and that's all people need is like a little bit of cushion. You know what I mean? Just and now I'm kind of worried. I'm like what the fuck. Are they going to start taking money out of my checking account or something? That's kind of horrifying. It's just like Big Brother. It's like well just fuck it then. Just make me homeless. I mean I don't know, but So, yeah today I'm just going to go down the list and just make calls and just figure it out.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah. Yep.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah. Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean the thing the only thing I don't get is I don't know how I was not You should be notified about things like that. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Maybe I I don't know. I don't know what happened. (pause) I don't know. The whole system is just you know? And the thing about (inaudible at [00:16:50]) I was talking to my friend about this too. What happens is from the get go you're kind of locked into this thing of shame. You know what I mean? That it shames you. You know what I mean? Because it's a societal thing. We don't talk about it that much. You're neighbor has a BMW and a manicured lawn, so you just assume that But you don't know that they have like $50,000 in debt on their credit cards. You know it's like it's just awful. I just I don't know man. That really fucking gets to me. Of course people need to be responsible or whatever, but the context is still the context. That's just people justthen they feel embarrassed. And that's what happened to me. Right? I just felt I feel so guilty, and so ashamed, and so like I must be some loser that can't get my finances together or whatever. But then you just keep putting it off more and more. You just don't want to deal with it. [00:17:48]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, because it's as if when you're calling Sallie Mae. Sallie Mae. It's as if you're the only one that's calling Sallie You know what I mean? Like you're some exception. You're some weird outsider. Its fucking millions of people (laughing) are in default.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Oh yeah, absolutely not.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) No, no. We would screw up and then they there would like neurosis (ph) and mass [inaudible] there's no -
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right, right. Oh yeah, I mean that's the other thing that I think the reason why I'm handling this much better is because I know that a lot of it -it's just it's from childhood. It's not just when I was 19 or whatever, it's just all Everything is a fucking embarrassment. You can't just be among people because in their mind, everyone else is better off than they are. No one else is calling Sallie Mae. You know what I mean? Other students are like, you know. Like, you know. Well, so and so's son works and goes to school and he doesn't have any loans. Why do you have I mean there's always a way to make it seem like other people are constantly one upping. [00:20:04]
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Right. Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Right. (inaudible at [00:20:40] establish (ph) what you-what? You defaulted on (laughing)
CLIENT: Are you kidding? Take that alright well, here's what we've got to do and let's let's look at (overlapping voices)
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Let's look up your account. Alright well yep. It's (mumbles) I mean, it's yeah, I don't know. [00:20:55] Yeah, it was as if I mean, in some ways I guess it was good that this happened. I mean, it's not good, but Like I said before, I'm the type where sometimes a switch just goes off and that's I think that's what happened. I was like whoa. Suddenly there's like this lucid moment where I was like wait, what? This because I just wouldn't make a phone call? What What's going on here? Yeah, it's kind of embarrassing, whatever, but that's just me. It's not like the other person. There's nothing (clears throat) (pause) (sighs) (sniffles).
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Right. Right. [00:22:01]
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) I have no idea.
CLIENT: She was really dizzy. Yeah.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) No. No.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) It's a moment of panic.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) But there's no afterwards saying: Okay, what was that? [00:25:27] What's going on here? (overlapping voices) There's no -
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. No. There's no there's no self-critical positive self-critical that No, I'm sure there's a lot of self-hatred or whatever, but (pause) nope.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right.
CLIENT: [00:30:01] It's funny too because I Maybe it's all that it happened like Thursday and Friday. Because at Thanksgiving I was it was a really funny Thanksgiving. I was kind of It wasn't bad, but it was just so blah. It was just so blah. I mean, I kind of talked to people, I guess, my cousins, but there was no Just I don't know. The only highlight was when my little cousin drew an awesome little picture for me. But I just It was maybe it's because I had a cold too or some I don't know. I was just like; I have no interest in being here really. I don't know. But I didn't feel bad. You know what I mean? I wasn't there feeling anxious or even depressed. I was just like; I'm going to be here for a little bit. It's the right thing to do. But we ate. Once they served coffee I was like I'll see you later. [00:30:59] (pause) Didn't get involved in any political discussions. (inaudible at [00:31:05]) Nah, just (pause)
CLIENT: Sorry?
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right?
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right (clears throat)
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know. In some ways it-yeah, it's kind of liberating. I don't know if that's the right word, but to feel okay I just got to deal with this stuff. [00:32:02] It really isn't it kind of deflates It's like we're not they're not going to put me in the fucking What's it called? Stockyard or barracks or What are those things called? Son of a bitch. The wood things, you know, like in the in the 1600's? The You know what I'm saying? You're in the town (ph) green, in the wooden thing. (overlapping voices) Yeah.
CLIENT: Sock (ph) stockyard, right? Stock?-anyway whatever. So, but yeah. It's not it's not like some (pause) boogeyman that's trying to get you, or something. You know what I mean? Just the shit that people do every day. There's something kind of liberating about (pause) or relief. I don't know what it is, but Just going like; hey man. Just see what's going on and figure it out and (pause) [00:33:04]
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Yeah. Yeah. And think about it, all these years I have not been able to not think about it. (overlapping voices) Do you know what I'm saying?
CLIENT: Unless you deal with it, there's nothing to think about. It's dealt with.
CLIENT: So you're on some (overlapping voices)
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, yeah. So now your mind can fucking think of (laughing) other things, or not be worried that (pause) It's just insanity, fucking insanity. [00:33:55] (pause)
CLIENT: Well, yeah, it's Well, remember there were debtor prisons, right? (overlapping voices) Especially in England.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, something I just feel really shy at first, and yeah, exposed, and kind of and automatically kind of not antagonistic, but antiauthoritarian (ph). I just hate working for other people. And that's that's fine. But in this case, I'm more and more (inaudible at [00:36:49]) wait a minute, this is for me. (laughing) I'm not It's good money and I'm not working for some schlep (ph). It's not like I'm punching in and out. It's a great idea for a business, and you're helping people. So, (pause) I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. When I transitioned from teenage into my 20's, or maybe no younger, I think. There were like one or two jobs that just I stopped going. I got jobs, and I didn't quit. I just wouldn't go. Something would just Like I was a I had a dishwashing job. And I went one day, and then I just I never went back. It's weird. I just I just felt really embarrassed or something. I got a job at the bookstore when I was like 17 or something. I worked like two, three days and I just I couldn't do it. [00:38:11]
CLIENT: I just felt really embarrassed.
CLIENT: I don't know. Just like, I didn't know who to talk to, and I felt shy, and Yeah.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) All of it.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) All of it. Yeah, yeah. I think I remember, the bookstore one, I was even too shy to ask what I should do, or to ask for help or Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, and But even then I think there were things about feeling a little bit demeaned or something. I was like; what the fuck am I doing? There's something about that kind of Yeah, even back then it was something about the grunt work that felt I don't know if it's because -(pause) I don't know. I don't know if it's because I just I was so close with my dad and he was a mechanic, and I saw how difficult I don't know. I don't know what why that was. [00:39:14] Or, I mean or I was just being a kid. You know what I mean? And I was a bit of a punk. And I was, you know. But the main things I remember is just feeling very Yeah, exposed is a good word. It's weird, and Like at the bookstore, I think I felt like I was the freak that was working there, deep down. I don't think I thought of that. But, you know, I felt really shy. I felt like I was ugly, and that the other people were like; who's this fucking kid? Or something. I don't know, but I'm pretty sure it was something like that. (pause) Yeah.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Right. Right. Which again doesn't make sense, because you got the fucking job. (laughing) So, clearly there's a -
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) But, back then I don't think I knew it, even intellectually. That didn't even cross my mind. Well wait a minute. Well I got the job. Yeah, back then, didn't even cross my mind. [00:40:21] Yeah. (pause) Yeah, weird, very strange. And it wasn't that I wasn't I mean, I had my first real job that at that carpet store. I worked hard and I liked that job. So I Maybe because that was such a small business, and I felt like it was more of a family or something. I don't know what it was, but these other places that are bigger and just random people and everything, I think You know what I think the other thing is too? It's because you're coming from the sheltered It's really like you're stunted. Like I was just like a five year old kid. You know what I mean? We only speak Assyrian at home, and all these other people are foreigners. [00:41:11] They're not Assyrian. They're You got to be careful or whatever all this shit. So, it's weird, and suddenly there you are at 9:30 in the morning at the bookstore. It's like There's something unsettling about that. But, it's like then I worked at [inaudible], that was fine. I worked there for a couple years. I don't know. I hated it, but I did it. So, I don't know. But there was a little period where there were few, maybe like two or three, jobs that I just (pause)
CLIENT: Well, that's how my book starts, right? One of the first the second poem, I think, is my dad under the car, Oldsmobile, freaking, fucking winter, on a piece of cardboard, in the driveway, fixing the car. And me holding the flashlight, freezing my ass off. It's what is that?
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, Yeah I was there. Yeah, yeah. This was like in ‘81. No, no, I'm sorry. (overlapping voices)
CLIENT: No, no. I was just holding the flashlight while he was under there. No, no, no. It couldn't have been ‘81. ‘86, ‘87. So, it's just like; what is that? On the one hand, I feel like wow, my dad's amazing. What a guy. It's fucking freezing. He's out there under the car, like you know. But, what is that? The guy's working in a factory, working from four to one in the morning. Yeah, I've always had that kind of My mom's side too. My grandfather was kind of like a socialist kind of guy. [00:43:29] Hard worker, but very into social justice, and fucking all that shit. So, yeah, maybe it was just something that was -
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) It's sad.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's sad. It's grunt work, and it's difficult, and they're immigrants. They don't you know. It's like, yeah I guess this is a better life, but is it? In a weird way. Do you know what I mean? [00:44:13] Money problems, and it's just something I think I'm an idealist, I think, in some ways. It's like it just doesn't need to be this way. It just doesn't. If it would have been Syria, I guess it does have to be that way. But when it's the most powerful, fucking country that's ever existed, there's got to be a way for people to have a little more dignity, and a little more You know what I mean? It just doesn't seem right to me. And I know that's completely idealistic, whatever, talk, but I feel like that's what America should be. Right? Like, you have to If you're not going to have high standards, and that's the idea of Why do people come here? So they can drive taxis? Like, what I don't know. Plus the thing that their lives were already miserable. [00:45:13] So, it's like; So, I guess this is better because you're not going to be sent to Siberia. (laughing) But Do you know what I mean? I just feel like it's just one difficult thing after another, except here you're under the guise of law (ph), you're working your way up whatever the fuck, up the ladder, or whatever. You want up the ladder. You're working and then you fucking die when you're 60 or 58. I just I don't know.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Towards the end, yeah. Definitely, definitely. Probably even earlier, but those last few years, absolutely. He hurt his arm.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) No
CLIENT: No, no. But, you could just tell.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, I mean, he hurt his arm pretty bad, and yeah It just yeah. [00:46:10]
CLIENT: Yeah, don't get me wrong. I know there are people yeah, yeah, yeah. No. There's no and work is work. Absolutely. I think yeah, I can (overlapping voices) It's about the context.
CLIENT: It's about the context. It's about I think, because if you're sensitive, and you're like; Wow. These people, they've already gone through all these difficult things in their lives, and for this? DO you know what I mean? It's one thing if you're born here. If either A, you just love driving taxis, good for you, or B, you're just kind of an idiot even though Imagine me. I'm born here, and I can't seem to do anything else but drive a taxi? That's my fault. When you're fucking born here, you're a moron if you cannot at least have some semblance of a better life than your parents, unless your parents are already doing very well. [00:47:07] But if you're middle to lower middle class, there's no reason why you should not be doing okay. But people that are immigrants like them, who have already gone through hell, it's just like Something about that seems like a cruel joke.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Exactly. And clearly (ph) it is different, in some ways it is, but the day to day It's a different kind of oppression, if you ask me. So, (pause) [00:47:45]
CLIENT: Okay, (clears throat) 12:50.
CLIENT: Yes. Thanks.
CLIENT: So. I'm doing alright. I got most of my paperwork done for the loans. It's kind of ridiculous it's so much easier now. It's basically all online.
CLIENT: Whatever, so. I already sent out a couple of forms, basically like four places. So that's good, I'm doing that.
CLIENT: No, no, it's still just like a different bank.
CLIENT: Maybe that's what it is, I kind of don't know what to talk about when things are, I was like yeah the record is coming along, and… It's weird. [0:03:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like I don't know what to…
CLIENT: No, no.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Exactly. How am I going to spring that? What am I going to say? Actually yeah that's true, there have been one or two people I have been able to bring that up, just because it's connected somehow to them, or something they said. When people just say how are? I can't be just like, well I'm doing psychoanalysis, and wow I'm fucked or whatever. I don't know what am I going to say? So now with that this kind of, it's not that it's great, it's just that I think that's normal in the sense that everyone has shit that they probably don't just want to talk about over a beer, you know what I mean? And that's what people do, like yeah things are good. You know, but what are people going to say? (Chuckling). [0:04:11]
CLIENT: Well no, even with Stephen, he's a very close friend of mine it's just, it didn't, it's wasn't the right…
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I'll be starting from a place of like, yeah I'm already starting from a place of like it's not good, or you're behind, or…
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Right, right. [0:08:21]
CLIENT: It's weird, it's very, very weird. I don't know why I can't treat it like music. I'll just be like, I'm just going to sit down and write the word cheese, for just to like have fun, you know what I mean? It's not fun, it's like yeeww, like hardcore, like in a way I'm just taking myself too seriously in a way. You know what I mean? It's like it's all just literary. Oh I know that sentence isn't interesting. That word is not interesting, that's not a nice turn of phrase. Oh yeah yeah, this is a cliché. Oh yeah man it's serious. Then I'm like this is a cliché, this sentence is boring…
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yup. I mean it's good for the end result.
CLIENT: I know, I know. (Laughing)
CLIENT: No, no. Yeah, cause what could you do? Obviously you can't write anything good if you're you know. Especially prose, I mean because in prose sometimes you have to write sentences like, he walked into the room.
CLIENT: Yeah, and like hardcore editing. The thing is I'm a good editor. I mean I do, yeah I know what's good, and I have faith in that, but that has to come after you already have something to edit. I'm the one who tells my students, or have told them over the last whatever years, that's not how you write, but (pause)So that's why it doesn't work when I say I'm going to write for 10 minutes. It from the get go there's not, I already know nothing is going to get on the page because I'm, it's like trying to write in a minefield. So I don't know. [0:11:11]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: No thank you, no it's funny because I'm going to see Kelly tonight. By the way, that's been going well, like our texting. I've been really good with that. See like doesn't bother me anymore. At least, I don't know, at least for now it's been (ph). You know she kind of, she'd throw in a couple of hey babes and stuff, and I was like wow that's, I mean, pretty much that's a good sign. But we couldn't get together Tuesday and she was like "Ah damnit." Like she was you know, that's cool. (Laughing) But anyway, I'm going to see her tonight and tomorrow actually. She invited me to this thing, but so now I feel kind of like that about her, it's weird like I'm kind of nervous now, do you know what I mean? Because it's kind of going well, and I don't… [0:12:17] (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know about if editing is the right word, but yeah, I feel more rigid now, I just feel like I want it to go well and I don't feel relaxed. (Laughing) I mean I'm sure I will when I see her, but (pause).
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Well the one thing that I decided I am going to tell her, either today or I don't know probably today I'll just tell her, but I'm I don't know, I feel like I just do want to tell her though, without making a big deal out of it, but just be like listen you know, ever since I started seeing you I kind of don't feel like seeing other people. So now (Laughing) make of it what you will, but I don't know I feel like that's you know.
CLIENT: So I guess that's being myself but yeah you're right it's like all these things it's like the more things kind of work, not work, yeah work out then it's harder to. (pause)
CLIENT: Well yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah I've thought it through, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: In other words like you have the whole day, obviously you work from home. You could go to the gym, you going to work on your book, you can do all this shit. There's something very deep from the past I think that instead of saying oh that's cool maybe I'll go for a 10 minute like, something more light-hearted, not light-hearted but yeah maybe light-hearted. Types it in, yeah maybe I'll just go for a 10-minute run today. You know what I mean? Like, who cares, what's there to think about there? You know? But that there's something very deep that even before I can get to that point, where I could be like yeah why, like it just shuts it down, you know what I mean? [0:17:28]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I don't know if it's that, even though I'm not so anxious, like I don't have anxiety attacks anymore and all that, but maybe there's something so deep that's still in a place of anxiety that it just kind of (pause)This is really smart. Boy, so where it says like, It whatever that thing is, it's still in such a place of anxiety that that, it's out of my comfort zone to go for a 10 minute run. You know what I mean? It's like ok, just let's just be in this routine, go to Starbucks, whatever, come home get crack-hooked to Netflix, you know what I mean? So like that's all good, but now that whatever that anxiety is it's holding on to that. It's like just do that, or something like that, you know what I mean? [0:18:27]
CLIENT: Something, it's not allowing me to have that just like, yeah like I'm just going to go for a 10-minute run. It's not really anything to think about. You know there's something about that that, I mean I know I'm going to get there because I think about it more and more often. So I know it's coming, like I'll be, either right now or later in the day I'll be like oh that's weird it's 8 o'clock I could easily go to the gym right now. I am literally am, like a 1 minute, literally a 1 minute drive, you know. It's so easy, it's so you know. So the more that I've been thinking about that, that means it's going to happen. Where in the past I wouldn't even, or it would be some fleeting thought, and I'd be like you know. Now I'm like no, I could put on my sneakers, just grab my keys, you know. So it's getting there, but it's so weird it's this like, it's weird that it's taking this process to do it instead of just being like oh I'm just going to do it. You know what I'm saying? It's just kind of odd. Like so whatever that thing is, is that powerful I have to go through this, it's almost like self talk or whatever awareness until I actually do it. [0:19:50]
CLIENT: I think it's just what you said. I think it's just like if it's an anxiety thing, anxiety doesn't like change. So it's just
CLIENT: I'm not sure what I'm saying exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, there is something about that, yeah. I mean I remember when I first went to any, yeah going to the gym is a little bit
CLIENT: In the beginning you're right, but I did it.
CLIENT: But I think, see, the flip side is in the past when I would go out alone, was it really for the right reason? You know what I'm saying? Like now I don't because I don't want to. I'm not looking for girls everywhere like trying to connect, and why can't I have a girl, you know a lot of that was about finding girls. (pause) So it's good, like I don't have to do that now.
CLIENT: Yeah like I'm tired of it, like I totally and truly, like almost every night now if I'm not doing anything else, you know I'll feel restless, but it gets dark so early, I'll start feeling restless around eight. Between eight and like10. I just hop in the car, I mean that's how I know I getting closer to going to the gym, I get out of the house. You know what I mean? I get dressed, I just get a Dunkin and I kind of work actually. I just plug in my IPhone. I listen to songs I'm trying to finish. I just drive around. (Laughing) and I have no problem. [0:25:21]
CLIENT: Yeah. The streets are, and do you know downtown well at all?
CLIENT: That's different, you know what I mean? But before where I would be out every night, you know, it's just like, I'm just trying to find something. (pause) So yeah I think there's, yeah it's that whatever deep anxiety that's I think is in it's last throws kind of? It's deep in there. It's hard to for some reason, it's just harder. (pause)
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: That's right, yeah.
CLIENT: That's totally true. Yeah that's totally true.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, when you're feeling more comfortable, yeah like I don't know, I'm not like a fat dude, Oh! That, well I'll remember what I was going to say, but you're totally right yeah. No it is, and that causes I think that whatever that deep anxiety is that triggers that in a way. Because it's like, oh shit now you gotta do things because you like yourself? Because that's what you're saying, like nows like no, I enjoy my life, I like the way things are. Things are kind of okay, you know what I mean? [0:28:23] So I think then that thing really digs in, you know it's like wait what? (Chuckling) Like you know. So tied into that, you know what's crazy? Lately when I look in the mirror, Iike I generally, I don't mean this like every second I'm looking in the mirror, but when I'm washing my face or whatever. I caught myself like maybe two days ago, I was like whoa, like I generally like the way I look. That was weird, that was a weird moment. That was, that was…
CLIENT: Yeah, isn't that crazy? I definitely noticed it, I was like whoa. I don't know if I've ever like in a genuine way, not like oh yeah I look great or whatever you know. I look well yeah. [0:29:15] You know, that was weird. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) So I think yeah, part of that is, yeah it's like now it's like well why? (pause) In the past I think I was going to the gym because it was, not for the wrong reason, but it was a little bit like yeah I want to be muscular, you know it think girls like that better, and like it was coming from a place of negativity. It'll make up for the fact that I'm not six foot two, or you know all these awful kinds of things. So and now that I don't feel that as much, now it's like ehh. (Laughing) Like. (pause) [0:30:07]
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: That has been coming up more now. See that's the change, now it's like, yeah you know what? I just want to be healthy. Now like I'm 40, and like I just you know. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah I guess you're right, there's like this period now that I remember it's like yeah it's like a weird lull where I'm like (pause) like it's, I see, like for example yesterday I didn't just go to Dunkin, like it was 8:30 or 9, I went I got my coffee, then I went to Target, then I went to Star, came home. I had these Christmas lights, but when I got Cecelia I realized that I had to put them, I was worried that she might you know. So it took me awhile, obviously I've had Cecelia for a while. I did it yesterday, it took me like half and hour. I went, got the hooks, put them up. That's a big deal for me, you know. [0:32:02] (30 second pause)
CLIENT: Yeah that I already get like I can tell that's the next thing that's going to cave you know what I mean? Because that's, I mean, I can just fell that. But writing is also, but it's not just that, it's more complicated because I'm overwhelmed with like information or stories, or I don't even know where to start, you know. That's the other tough thing about writing. I'm just completely overwhelmed, and I don't know, I guess there really is nothing to do about that other than just. Once you can let go of the self editing part, then you just start writing, even if you don't know what you're writing. It's a novel, it's a memoir whatever it is you just start putting things on paper. But that is tough, because it is like literally I don't know where to start, you know? That's always kind of hard. You know other people, other people sit there and don't know what to write because they're trying to come up with ideas, you know. I have I mean just everything that's happened to me, or my family story could fill novels, so (pause) [0:34:13]
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: But I don't want to just, I think it's just also that's the work, I mean any writer would totally like no fucking shit Sherlock, that's, that's why you sit there for a few hours trying to figure out, you know. It's your creating a world, even if that world existed, it doesn't exist now, you're creating it. Yeah of course, that's really hard you know? But yeah so I think it's that, but yeah it's also that I don't, because it has to do with me in someway, maybe it's just.
CLIENT: Oh, I did see a crazy dream, that kind of is connected. Do we have time?
CLIENT: I saw a dream the other day that we were living downtown, and I think I even know that street, kind of. And it was like this nicer, kind of like single family house kind of thing, and it was me and my dad, but my mom wasn't my mom. I have no idea who this lady was, but it wasn't my mom. And there was a grandmother there, but it wasn't my grandmother. It was fucking insane, and the weird thing was, it seemed like we were happier, or happy or something. (Whispering) It was really weird. [0:40:09] I wrote some of down and emailed to myself but forgot to, and like the drummer, my drummer came over to drop off some gear. I don't know why him, He's just like "Hey man, what's up?" and he says something like "Oh I don't know your dad" or something like that, and I said something like, oh you know, he's like my favorite person, or something like that. But yeah, there were some other parts I wrote, but it was weird, it was really weird. It was like a good
CLIENT: Yeah, it was a good dream, but the mom wasn't my mom. (Whispering) That's really strange.
CLIENT: I know that it was still an Assyrian, like because I think we were speaking Assyrian, I think. Or we were mixing Assyrian and English or something, but [0:41:09]
CLIENT: I don't think so. You know she was some white lady you know. She definitely seemed motherly. She had kind of shorter hair I think. Maybe reddish hair or something? I don't know. And the grandmother I remember for some reason the grandmother was kind of like well-dressed. Maybe had her hair in a bun, or something? I don't know. (Chuckling) It's just really weird. (pause) And the drummer, (Chuckling) I remember the drummer brought, one of the things he brought was this huge guitar, it was huge! And I was all excited for some, I was like oh man this is one of those nylon Strats, I don't know what I was saying.
CLIENT: You know like the classical guitars have nylon strings instead of metal? And I like playing those. I've never had one, I don't know why, but I like playing them, and this one had nylon strings. I was like oh cool it has nylon strings. Very strange. And it was different because it wasn't the kind of dream where me and my dad like I'm just crying, like hugging my dad. Like I was at a reunion dream or something? It wasn't like that, it was just like here we are.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: But then it's not my mom because I've extracted myself from, like I'm just feeling better about. I don't need a dream where she's there, and she's annoying me or I'm yelling at her. It's just a symbolic mom or whatever I guess. I don't know. [0:43:10]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: What's going on?
CLIENT: Some like incredible things happening. I don't know, it's crazy. It feels good. I sat down yesterday, so yesterday I had that thing again where between 8 and 10 I'm kind of like a little restless or whatever. Wait was it yesterday? Yeah it was yesterday. I could have gone to this show at The Middle East, I could have seen it. I went and did my Dunkin as usual, did a little tour around downtown listening to some snippets from some songs and whatever. I came home and I did my taxes. I sat down and did all my taxes back to 2008. [0:01:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. It was like dude it was so easy, and it's not like I'm complicated, you know what I mean? You got your W2, the EZ form, whatever the fuck, and of course mostly I was getting refunds. Not much, but you know a hundred bucks here, one-fifty there, and I owed like $17 on one state. It was just all so silly, I was like, are you kidding me, this is it? This is what I was avoiding? Like it's so weird, you know? Now of course it also made me feel better, okay so I'm not a fugitive. (Laughing) Like I don't know, a few of them I think I didn't even have to file after the, I didn't even realize now when you're single there's this big deduction like $4400 or whatever. If you're married its $8000. I'm talking about the state. But I mean some of them I didn't even really have to file. I didn't even make enough to really even file. [0:02:10]
CLIENT: Yeah, just the idea that it's taxes, it's what we all do, it's not a big deal, and yeah just another thing to make me like I'm not part of, you know it's just so stupid. But anyway I did it.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then today I sent out all the last minute student loan stuff so it's all out.
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty cool. Yup.
CLIENT: It was pretty cool, I mean I was sitting there doing my taxes and I was like I don't even need white noise right now. You know I had Cecelia, she was like a perfect distraction. She's so attached to me, that's kind of fun in a way. That's my white noise. You know what I mean? In a good way. She's constantly, she's like a dog. When I'm sitting there she'll come and put her paws, like how dogs stand up like. Just sit there and just look at me and meow and rub her head against my leg or whatever. It's like perfect. I just cranked it out, it was like this is didn't even take long. It wasn't like oh my god this is going to take forever. Once I did one I was like wait a minute, it's all the same formula. Just punching in numbers. [0:03:35]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yup. And then the other really big thing, of course I think they are all connected, but I think I'm gonna do a tour in May, and I think I'm gonna play some shows in Assyria.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, so this was something I kind of thought about, and last night I spoke to, I have a really good friend who I don't see often anymore but now he lives on the West Coast, but he's also American-Assyrian. Really, really nice guy, and we were just talking, and I didn't even say anything, and he knows a lot about music, the business side of music. So he was like yah man tour. He's like very, very supportive. He's not a bullshit artist. He's a pretty tough cookie, so I trust what he says. Before I could say anything he was like man, you know you might not think it's a big market or maybe be so worthwhile but he's like I think you should hit up Assyria. [0:04:48] And when he said that it was just, I felt so, I was like dude that's crazy, I thought about that off and on. So we had this long conversation about that, and then that just got me thinking more and more. You know it's just really, I think yes, something kind of definitely freed up. Because I was like well, but how do I get a whole band over there. Like these guys have girlfriends and whatever or lives. And he was like dude, listen man, so I don't know your band. I've never seen your band. He was like, but I know your music. Those are your songs, right? That's what matters. I know you're not the type to get session musicians, but he was like dude you could even send your CD ahead of time to Assyria and there would be people lining up to be your backing band. They'll learn the shit and they'll play it. He's like if you don't want to do that, just do what a lot of artists do now, just grab your laptop, just a solo act but with you know some backing tracks. [0:05:51] They integrate into your, so I don't know, I was like. He was really, he was really, that was a good talk. He was dude you can't over think it man, you just gotta book it, and he's like you're really, really talented. He's like I can tell you're in the right frame of mind. You gotta do it man, these are amazing songs and you can really build an audience. So it's cool. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah he's a tough character, but we have a really like bAbilerly type, yeah. And he just knows his shit you know, so when he talks he's not just blowing air. [0:06:43]
CLIENT: This is another, Abil is a fairly common Assyrian name, yeah. The Abil at the bar is the older guy. I mean Abil is like that too, he's very, but he's more, because that's so much more like family and he's older. He doesn't really know how a lot of this shit works. It's not.
CLIENT: Lebanese-Assyrian, that's right. I mean they've been here since like ‘72, but so yeah it's not like other people don't give me that support, but Abil, because Abil and I are the same age, and he's American-Assyrian, and he understands the music business. It's much more concrete and inspirational, not inspirational like validating or whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. He's like man I'll e-mail you my contacts. I know people there. He's very, you know. Just talking numbers and whatever. He's right, he's like dude just book some shows in Assyria and just decide on, anchor it, you know. Have shows, and then shows, and then you just come through Europe. You play some shows in Europe and you come back to the States. The thing to do is just book something in Assyria, and then let's say something in Paris, and he's just don't even worry about the middle. Then you start filling that in, just you know. [0:08:06] It was a really good talk, it really was. He was like dude if it's just about numbers that you're not doing it, like money, he's like dude, what is that? That's just pen and paper. That's just sitting down putting numbers, adding, subtracting, and figuring it out. There's always a way. He's like do another kick starter. He's like what is it if it's just you? What's that like $1200, $1300 ticket? You raised five grand. What's $1300? Especially after your record comes out, after more people know you, after people are excited. And now you're gonna go on a tour, it's exciting. What's $1300 fucking dollars? Really cool. And also it helped because I have noticed that I've been worrying about the band dynamic, like I don't wanna feel dependent on them, which I already have started to, you know what I mean? Cause I love having the band, but I do need to start thinking about that. I mean these guys love being in the band, but other than James, the drummer, he's 24 he's not married. He's still in that, he and I are similar that way. He's willing to like yeah man lets hit the road, or lets you know. But the other two guys I don't, I think they would definitely want to, I just think it's logistically I think it would be tough. You know? [0:09:23] And even with James, the guy's broke, how would we get a ticket for him? I don't know, I don't know how bands, I think talk to other people about how bands make this happen but.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like what, I was like you expect me all of the, what do you, I was like think about what your saying. It's like everybody starts somewhere right? Like yeah, but you've been doing this a long time and blah, blah, blah. I was like no, I've been doing it alone a long time, and not properly. I have not been doing it this way, everything has been half-ass because of all the other bullshit. Like it felt very good to be like I don't upset anymore. I just tell her, you know what I mean? And then she gets it when I tell her that stuff.
CLIENT: She did, I mean she's still confused. She's like well, you know. But then when I told her, Mom, I'm not going there for one concert to 50 people. It's a tour right? I was like so there's going to be a bunch of concerts. She's like oh. I was like yeah. So I'm probably gonna come back hopefully having made a profit. Maybe not huge, but whatever, that's a big deal to go and come back with a few hundred bucks in your pocket. So like oh. And I was like plus I don't have to quit my job. I'm lucky I can work anywhere. I mean I could probably talk to these people, like look, I'm going on a tour, but there's no reason why I can't work. I mean it's on my laptop. Wherever I am you just send me, whatever. I'll just keep working. [0:13:45] that's a very unique, lucky situation to be in. A lot of artists have to either quit their jobs or they have to take extended periods off where they're not getting paid, or you know. Because their jobs are not telecommuting, they can't work from, so I'm very lucky that way. And then it felt good, then when she said something else, I don't remember what she said about, but it was something about her, and I was like Mom you know what? This isn't, it's not about you. I'm doing something for myself, because that's my goal. So I don't know what you're talking about (Chuckling). She said, no no I know, I know, that's not what I mean. Then she get's all, you know. I was like all right, well settle down. But it felt very good to be like it didn't even faze me. I just didn't care you know. [0:14:34]
CLIENT: But I got a little frustrated, but now it's frustrated the way any kid who talks to their parents. It wasn't like I didn't take it so deep. I was like you don't know what you're talking about. (Laughing) Like whatever.
CLIENT: Right, right, right, yeah. And that was the other thing, the more, nothing turned into an argument, you know, because she did kind of get what I was saying, more or less. She just, you know. Now it's at a place where it's more normal. I think she's being like any old school mother that kind of doesn't understand some of this stuff. Worries about their kid, you know whatever. All this shit. [0:15:22] But at the same time she did start understanding when I just explained it very clearly instead of just like in the past where I wouldn't either tell her anything, or I would just blowup. I would be so frustrated, you know? (pause)
CLIENT: Well I think what's happening with her is what's happening with me and everybody in my life now. I'm not taking things personally. I'm kind of, I think I'm just more and more comfortable just doing my own thing. I don't really care if I hear from X so often, or I don't hear from X. I kind of don't care anymore. I just feel like, like Abil and I were talking about that. It's like now I'm in a place where (pause) I don't know, you gotta strike while the iron is hot, you know? [0:17:12] And you can't be distracted by stuff. Especially from Abil, I take that to heart because I know kind of what he's trying to tell me. I mean the guy works in insurance. He's moved a lot. I think he would much rather make a living. He had a record label, which was very good actually. But you know just didn't make enough, or whatever. So I kind of get the subtext of what he's telling me. He's like you're not married, you have something very valuable to share with people. He's like you're insulting your audience if you deprive them of you know. It's like other people would kill to have some talent. But it's very, a lot of stuff maybe I already kind of knew, or I tell myself, but when you hear like that from someone who is so like direct, and not fucking around. [0:18:23]
CLIENT: Yeah, or I've heard from people, but because now I'm ready to not just deflect someone who is saying that you know what I mean? I've heard that from people, like talented, but I think now because I'm ready to absorb that, and not just be like oh yeah well maybe I'm not really talented, or something. Make up excuses, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Right. (pause) [0:19:29]
CLIENT: I haven't thought about it. Yeah I mean, I don't know it would be weird. I'd miss it definitely yeah. Maybe I did think about it briefly, but I was thinking more about Cecelia. I was like damnit, now I'm like really attached to her, like that's, shit I'm one of those people now.
CLIENT: Well to the pet, you know? But now it's her and I it's just getting ridiculous now. I mean now she sleeps basically like up here, she nuzzles. She likes hugs, if I have my arms up there, she hugs me. She puts her paws around my arm. It's I've never seen anything like this. [0:20:37]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah really really close.
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's the thing like. I mean it so outweighs missing Cecelia, or missing coming here. That's a good thing, you know what I mean? It's like and it's the opposite, like whoa then it'll be good to come back, and see you, or see Cecelia, or whatever you know. I think that's a much healthier (Laughing) you know. Because otherwise those are the whack jobs like my adviser here where it's like his cat is his best friend in the world, and that wouldn't be me anyway, but that's the opposite. There's your life out in the world and then there's these additional things that are great, but they are not your, can't be like your escape, or you know what I mean to block out the world. [0:23:27]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh oh, yeah.
CLIENT: I know, that's why this feels so good. This feels like, this makes up for like the stupid decision not to go to Paris, that time. You know what I mean? It's like, what am I crazy? This fucking broad will be here when I get back, and who is she anyway? We're just dating and what the fuck, who cares? I mean not in that way, but you know what I mean. Like you gotta look out for yourself, and not in a bad way. You gotta look out for yourself in ways that matter to you. And if someone is going to be there when you get back, they're going to be there when you get back. And also it's the opposite. She, if it was me now, I would have broken up with her right there. It's like you're trying to convince me not to go, and that's what she did. So
CLIENT: Yeah, she kind of convinced me, well they're not going to pay for you to go there? But that's nonsense. She should have been like that's an amazing opportunity. I don't really regret that so much anymore, in the sense that it was not like I was gonna go there and my whole life was gonna change. I mean I'd already been to London. I kind of knew what it was. But that's kind of not the point. It would have just been something nice to do, and I don't like cancelling on people last minute. I don't like that. And know I definitely burned that bridge I think. They're not going to have me back nor should they probably. Lots of people want that gig. So they don't have to. So it's not like the end of the world, but it was just like kind of unnecessary awkwardness, like why? But also it had nothing to do with her. That was me, I should have all along been like how do I get the money to go to Paris? [0:25:52] What was it a grand? 800 bucks? I mean come on, borrow it, just be like. It's like I just didn't want to go, or something. Once I got back for some reason I didn't wanna. So yeah I totally know what you're saying. Where as now it's the opposite. Now I feel restless here, because it is where [inaudible] feel real man. I mean and even with the band like I should just be playing shows. What am I doing? That would be so easy, with one person and your laptop, and your guitar. What the fuck? That's so easy. Part of me of course does want to, it's just more comfortable to stay here. I've got a nice routine you know. But that other side of me now is getting much stronger, and be like dude, you gotta just suck it up you know. That's basically what Abil said too, he's like dude you can't worry about how it's gonna go or if people are gonna like it, or how many. Who the fuck cares? He's like once you get going man, that things will start happening. Not ever show is going to be amazing, he's like you're a musician, you're a songwriter you gotta just get out there. [0:27:14]
CLIENT: You know it's weird, Like I just, I guess I just feel much freer to do. Like last night then I went to this amazing website I found that lists in detail all the gear that Radiohead uses. I think every musician, at least every musician who likes them or songwriters, fascinated by you know. I don't know if you listen to them, but they, their soundscapes are really incredible but yet they sound organic they don't sound like cold. So I just sat there studying, I was like mesmerized, I was just studying all their gear and what they use. So it's weird like I think I'm in this place now, and I remember while I was doing this, I was like why am I not unable to focus on this, you know what I mean? So I think there is something to be said for (pause) You go through phases of your life where, like right now I'm just very focused on music. That's what is taking up my mind. [0:29:15] So I think it's not that bad that I'm not able to get so much writing done. It just is what it is. (pause) So I think the idea is like well yeah, but just because I'm not selling a lot of records, you know what I mean? As if that negates all the hard work and obsessive dedication, you know what I'm saying? Well like no I should also be writing the book, but no, whether millions of people are hearing it or not, I'm devoting a lot of time and mental energy, and emotional everything. So it's like I can't just switch that off and then start writing a great novel, like that's not me. [0:30:00]
CLIENT: I know, I know. A few people have told me that.
CLIENT: No some people have told me that, like in a joking way they're like dude. My friend Donnie even says like dude it's not even like you shooting your mouth off, you're an established good writer, poet, and an established. He's like dude, that's you know.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I think it's finally kind of sinking in that yeah I don't have to keep proving things, like whoever gets it gets it, whoever doesn't I don't really give a shit. (pause) But yeah I think that was last night that was I think a big. I was like wait a minute, I'm fucking driving around every night listening to song fragments, working on lyrics, like I'm working hard at this shit. Thinking about what gear to use, and that's. [0:31:21]
CLIENT: No I did mention it.
CLIENT: Maybe I didn't explain it clearly.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I have a full playlist of looped. Either I'll have the whole song without lyrics, or a fragment that I know is a song it's just waiting, so I'll just pick one or two, whatever. I'll just loop it. So it just plays over and over, and I'll just drive around. And I'll kind of babble. I usually write by, I write the music first and then I have a melody in my head, so there are no words. So I just sing nonsense. And then eventually I start putting words to fit that nonsense. Whatever melody. [0:32:15]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Most of the time I'm working. Or even if I'm not listening to the music, I'm thinking. It's almost meditative. I'm like already what should I do, how should I do it?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (pause) I think it's just that old idea that maybe I wasn't admitting to myself where it's like I'm just doing all this stuff cause I just want the validate, I want, you know what I mean? I want the more like validation is the right word? I don't know. You know what I mean? [0:33:05] Where as, wait a minute, I have a full time job, job. I work hard at, what am I doing? Of course sometimes I just want to watch Netflix, what the fuck? I'm trying to book shows, I'm trying to manage a band. I don't think that was clicking. (pause)
CLIENT: That's the irony. I am writing. I'm probably writing songs all the time, you know, but I guess I'm just, maybe that's so second nature or. It's like yeah, but no one knows them or you know. Or there's all these fragments, they're not done. What does that mean? They will be done. I am finishing songs, so what? I think it's just nonsense, it's all just about, I think Abil is right, you know, people find ways to not go for what they should be going for. [0:34:27]
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying, yeah.
CLIENT: So it's finally lie, I mean like I've been telling, I tell people. They're like so oh you've got new stuff already? I have like over 50 songs brand new. On top of older, older shit that now I've just forgotten about because I'm working on all this new stuff. So I think finally I'm getting that
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So I think finally it's hitting that you know what? That's work. That's like two, no not two, that's like 5 records of 10 songs each. And I know myself a lot of them are keepers, they're not. Let's say out of the 50, I would say 30 of them I would say are good songs. So that's unheard of. Dave tells me that all the time. He's like dude you constantly have stuff. So I think I'm finally trying to not just intellectualize that. You know. (pause) [0:36:18]
CLIENT: It's funny because I think it's full circle, you know. I started, music was the first thing. Then I went to poetry and all that. I mean it was almost simultaneous but music was the real obsession. It's funny now I think I'm getting back to that, like all that. I told you all the crazy recording I used to do. So I think now I'm like what am I doing? I could just be making amazing things at home. It's not that hard. Once someone, I know the basics theoretically and I can do some, I do some rough recording, but if one of my friends who knows what they are doing just sits down with me one day, is ok you just need this, this, this. This is how it lets you do one track, this is how you do it, blab, blab. That's nothing, and I'm the type once I get going, that's it. I'll get obsessed with doing it right.
CLIENT: Yeah because I love it. Just like with the videos. Yeah, yeah. (pause) [0:38:18]
CLIENT: It's incredible.
CLIENT: And I think what ends up happening is you kind of project that. I mean I'm already, I mean I think, I don't want to say I'm a humble guy, but you know I have that part of my Dad where it's like this, I do tend to do the aw shucks thing a lot. And a lot of that is genuine. I do feel like whatever, we all do our, I mean I don't know I just think that's a, I like that quality in people. I'm glad I have that. But, if you're like that and you also keep discounting in other ways in more negative ways, you know what I mean? That's not good. It would be one thing if I always carried myself as yeah I'm a poet and a whatever PhD. But I'm not an asshole about it, you know what I mean? That's different, but when you're constantly doing the aw shucks thing, and you're
CLIENT: It's easy for even your friends to kind of not get what you've done. You know and that's, and then of course I get upset that they don't, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's like yeah but you're acting kind of like oh yeah published this book. So it is one of those things.
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly.
CLIENT: [0:42:29] This is one of those things were normally I wouldn't tell people until things are going to happen, like going on tour. But I'm wondering, and I think this is what Abil was trying to tell me. Like maybe in this case it's the opposite, I have to tell people cause then it will force me to you know what I mean? Because who cares? If it doesn't work out it doesn't work out, but at least I think it will force me to actually start trying to make it happen instead of just thinking it in my head. Because normally I've gotten away from telling people I'm gonna do this or I'm gonna do that, I don't like that. I think in this case I've got to outmaneuver myself. [0:43:12]
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, and also the more when you say it out loud, it's more exciting. You know what I mean? You're like whoa this, it just makes it more like real instead of some, and that was what Abily was trying to say. He's like dude it's really not a, not that it's not a big deal, but he's like you know, what is it a ticket? Think about it man, it's just a ticket.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah obviously.
CLIENT: Right. He's like your book the show in New York, except it's not in New York. But really what's the difference? A couple of e-mails, and finalizing a date or something? I mean what? [0:44:00]
CLIENT: Right, right. (1 min pause)
CLIENT: I don't know, yeah I'm not going anywhere.
CLIENT: That's fine.
CLIENT: That's fine, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Ok.
CLIENT: I mean if it's later it's better, but if not that's fine too. It's no big deal.
CLIENT: Okay, cool. (pause) So yeah it looks like I'm gonna run a half-marathon. (Laughing)
CLIENT: Yeah my friends kind of convinced me to do it with them. We'll see I'm gonna try. I figure it's a good way to guilt myself into, it might be fun. It's kind of dorky, but whatever. Could be fun you know. [0:02:05] I'm gonna try.
CLIENT: Yeah but I'm not taking it to if I don't do it I'm not gonna feel bad. I would never have thought to run a half-marathon, but.
CLIENT: Yeah I kind of don't care really.
CLIENT: So it's funny like so Friday I went to see Kelly, and I didn't know that her best friend was gonna hang out with us, so it was pretty cool. That's kind of a show of something. It's an expression for girls it's kind of a big deal, and it was really fun. It was really nice. He was a really cool person. They had a great time. I didn't wanna, you know, she has a kid, and I didn't wanna even have to make her feel in anyway like she has to have me over, but also didn't want to drive back, drunk or whatever. So it was kind of fun I got a hotel room kind of in her hood. It was kind of fun. We spent the night there. It was fun. [0:04:09] And then the other thing, like [inaudible] Friday, and then yesterday she kind of sent me a little wink in the afternoon and she came up for coffee. It was so awesome. Yesterday was almost the best day. She just came up for coffee, we hung out for 2 or 3 hours, and she went home. We had really great conversation and hung out. I really, really like her. This is definitely unusual. Like I even told her yesterday, she was laughing, like don't be nervous. I was like I haven't felt like this nervous, but it's totally in a good way, but you know. Like yesterday when we were just hanging out talking, like I could tell my hands were getting sweaty once in a while. [0:05:08] Because I was just like, I was very aware of how fucking normal and just so nice. It's just like (pause)
CLIENT: So like when I think I told her I felt a little nervous, like when I thought about it, I was like wow man that's so sad that's really about years and years of having nothing even close to this, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah that's what I ‘m saying. Yeah. Like she's just a fucking good person. She apologized again yesterday about that a few years ago, she's like I don't know what happened there. She's like I'm really sorry. Like's she's just a good person you know? We talked a little bit about our growing up and stuff. She said that's she like I've always been really picky, even all through high school. She said I didn't really date a lot in high school at all. I just cared more about my friends and she's like I never wanted my, I didn't want dating to overlap the friendships and get all messy and gossipy. [0:09:14] Like there's something about, And I told her too, I was like I found that so attractive that you just very, like no it's perfect we all have issues you know, but there's something so grounded about her. And it was really sweet, she was like yeah you too. She's like there's something steady. That's such a good, because it's fucking true. I know I have things that I'm working on, but I also know that if the other person approaches dating in a kind of semi-fucking normal way I'm, you know what I mean? I'm not, that was like kind of really nice to hear. I don't know, I'm not sure what I'm getting at, but.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, like waiting for the other shoe to drop. Yeah it does feel like that.
CLIENT: And suddenly, yeah. That's exactly what it is. It's not even that we'll have an argument someday, or it's nothing like that, it is something very sudden. I feel like, and maybe because that's what's happened. I mean not just in my childhood, but then Samantha, to just. I feel like things have never, and I know those things have nothing to do with this, but that's the feeling that there will be something all of the sudden where she'll just drop off the face of the Earth. [0:11:16] And just suddenly be cold and just done with me, you know?
CLIENT: Which I know, I know things like that, first of all things like that do happen.
CLIENT: But I also know that in this case that seems incredibly of all the things that could happen, that seems incredibly unlikely, and really irrational, you know? But again I know that up here. I'm feeling better and better about it. But that's what I kind of don't like. I don't like that she has to keep validating, you know what I mean? I know that's part of any normal relationship as you get to know each other you realize more and more wow this person really, really cares about me. Part of that is normal, you start feeling more secure in the relationship, you know. But this kind of, this is definitely at another level. [0:12:16] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. Like for example yesterday, she didn't think about anything. She didn't think about oh well I just saw him Friday is it gonna be weird that I wanna, you know what I mean? She just did it, you know? I mean I didn't think that much of it, I mean I was actually the one who invited her, It's not like she invited herself, but I just sense something, I don't know. I just sense that maybe she wanted to, I don't know. So I was like you know I'm gonna have coffee, whatever. I was like you know you're more than welcome if you want coffee or something. And she was like I just gotta check on, you know. [0:13:08] You know like (pause) I don't know what I'm saying, but in practice I'm being the same way as she is being for the most part. And maybe she is as nervous as I am, I don't know. She's definitely a little more, not reserved. (pause) I tend to be very expressive, like when I really, really like a girl. I tend to just, I wanna say stuff, about what I think about them. Where as I think for a lot of people that's not so easy. So I totally, I totally understand that. But yeah, so what I'm saying though is that even though I see that, I'm like wow this girl is like she's not thinking about, like she's in this you know what I mean? Her fucking best friend? Like are you kidding me, that's a big deal. But again I get it up here, but here it's like, so today I'm like maybe I shouldn't text her today. I mean there's still a little bit, not so much anymore, but there's still just like this. I don't know man. Oh oh, and Friday I even said, we got pretty tipsy whatever, but it was just so fun we had such a good time, I couldn't help it. I was like listen, you know, It's not a big deal, I don't want you to, but I was like you know I haven't seen anyone else since we've been hanging out, and I was like I don't want too. You know, I just want to see you. She was like yeah me too. And so it was like very just that was it, you know. But instead of, I mean I'm very happy about that, but instead of feeling it here, like what? So she lied to me? [0:14:10] You know what I mean? Like the girl. Do you know what I'm saying? Like that's just fucking unnerving a little bit. That I can take things like that and process them intellectually, but like you said it's just this feeling like yeah she said that but tomorrow she could just disappear you know? I don't know what the fuck that's about. Well no I do know what it's about.
CLIENT: I think it's just so much loneliness, or so much aloneness. And then that lead all the way up to someone literally just not be there. Just dropping dead. Then a series of people you know? Maybe not all dying so suddenly, but two of them dying suddenly. So I'm assuming that's what, that combined with already feeling very alone and kind of in my own world. I'm assuming that's you know.
CLIENT: Fuck yeah, are you kidding? Oh my god. Yeah, no shit. [0:16:01]
CLIENT: Meanwhile I didn't even know if girls like me in high school, you know I was just you know. So there's no doubt. It's not just that there were tragedies, it's just all this stuff that happened before. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, when you feel like I could have not a great day with Abby, but it's not gonna cross my mind, to be like oh yeah I don't think I wanna see Abby anymore, you know what I mean? That kind of relationship, like good friendships, right? Where you are like you have friendships where your friends might annoy you, your friend might have some annoying habits. But that's never gonna cross your mind to not be this person's friend. Somehow I haven't been able to translate that to a woman's love and affection. You know romantic. That of course there are gonna be moments where, and that's a two way street. She's gonna annoy me too, you know what I mean? [0:20:13] Like I make it, I always make it sound like I'm the one fucking up and being awkward, and doing something stupid. (pause)
CLIENT: All the time, c'mon you know what I mean? Like what. Yesterday for example I saw her from my window pulling up, but then when I got outside she parked kind of down the street so when I looked at her car, I didn't see her in the car, or I, I don't know what happened, but I felt like I couldn't see her. And then she had out of state plates, and for a second I was like no I think she has local plates right? I got totally discombobulated for a second so I kind of walked back, and was like no wait no that's her. So when I walked back you know, I saw her whatever. In that moment, of course this is happening very quickly, it wasn't like I was dwelling on it, but in that moment that voice like fucking surged, like oh man you're an idiot. [0:21:10] How stupid and embarrassing, you're awkward.
CLIENT: Yeah I totally handled it.
CLIENT: But there was a split moment of just like, and I heard me say what, what, I just didn't know it was her for a second. So what? Just unbelievable.
CLIENT: [inaudible] It's really crazy how you mind can be detached from what's, from the evidence in the real world, you know what I mean? It's crazy, crazy. (pause)
CLIENT: When you start to talk?
CLIENT: What? What do you mean?
CLIENT: Not today. Why?
CLIENT: Now you're making me nervous.
CLIENT: I mean I think I interrupted you once or twice just because I was (pause) Why what were you going to say?
CLIENT: Like that's nice, but don't be a chump, you know what I mean? These people they're not all your friends, a lot of them are secretly jealous, or a lot of them don't give a shit about you and your band. You know like don't. You gotta be a little bit more self-protective, and I hadn't been for all those years. And I think what ended up happening, especially after Samantha, I think I realized that in a really big way over time. And then that, it was like the other extreme, like I'm like super paranoid that I can't say anything. I can't act vulnerable, I can't you know. I mean I was already kind of like that remember? I was like I hate complaining, I don't wanna be like a complainer.
CLIENT: So it's just like, well what the fuck so I can't do anything. Now it's like I have to be a slab of granite or something. [0:27:03]
CLIENT: Well it's not just that. The thing with me is that I feel so much embarrassment you know I'm carrying a lot of embarrassment around. Sooo, it's only now that I'm getting that, first of all there's really nothing to be embarrassed about, I mean yeah whatever, you know, but I do. I feel really embarrassed and like you know I look back on a situation, what the, what a fucking chump or how, or what a display of like heart on your sleeve, and that really makes me cringe you know? I finally get though that I haven't acted that way in years now. And also, acted that way, I'm finally starting to dismantle that picture of myself as some blubbery weakling. You know what I mean? That wasn't the case at all you know?
CLIENT: Like I'm trying to overcompensate for some image of myself that wasn't true.
CLIENT: Yeah I mean I did, I cried. I tried to win Samantha over, but that. What I'm forgetting though is that I, that's called loving someone, and loving the wrong person whose being cold, for whatever reason, I'm not, I'm beyond like it's not that she was crazy, whatever. For whatever reason someone is being cold and weird, and vague, and. So how am I, you know, why should I. You know what I mean? It's all these things about I just feel like the blubbering fool. It's in my songs, it's in my poetry. There's always a fool. The word fool comes up a lot in my writing.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So that yeah because otherwise who the fuck cares about the minutiae of texting? I mean yeah we all do a little bit, but I mean I think that any dude in my situation right now would be like holy shit man. Like you know this broad is into me. You know what I mean? Like they just take it as you know (Laughing) (pause) No it is yeah, it's very complicated. It is very complicated. But I think that is the biggest thing, one of the biggest things, is that I just carry around a lot of, we kind of talked about this yesterday too, not about this, but. You know saying how like Jason that one time really reprimanded me for having that aw shucks attitude. But where does that come from? You know, I mean partly yes I do like, my Dad was a very humble, humble person. But I forget that he was humble in a good way. [0:31:08] Yeah my dad was dude, he just happened to have that rare quality of like just true modesty. Whereas for me, it's not that I'm pretending to be modest, but I think a lot of times when I'm acting super humble or whatever, it kind of is coming from a, it's both, it's coming from a place of I don't like to make a big deal out of things to much, but I think it's partly also that I'm embarrassed. You know?
CLIENT: To be loved. For someone to say dude you're a really good songwriter.
CLIENT: Exactly right.
CLIENT: It's like it's, and I think it's
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think a lot of it is love. I think you know, like when you're someone who's sensitive and has a lot to give, but it keeps being douche bags or people that intentionally or unintentionally bring you up in a fucked up way or whatever. So when there's this person that seems to kind of deserve it? They're, it's like wow. I think that yeah. (pause) In that way I think I am very healthy, you know? Because I don't just go there, you know what I mean? I check, I check that. But it's definitely there. [0:35:07] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah there's something very real about her. You know what I mean? Like you know when I look at her, like yesterday I was looking at her, I was like this is crazy. I'm not idealizing her. She's is beautiful, but I'm not, I see the flaws, I see the flaws already. Like I know where I could have gone like two years ago. She's a little bit overweight, or whatever. But I don't. But yeah that's what's so crazy this time, is that I'm like I don't give a shit I really like this person. [0:36:17] And yeah it does have this sense of like there's something stable here, or something. You know somebody that just texts you and just comes up to have a coffee. Like what? (pause) And who's is expressive, like Saturday morning it had snowed. So when we went out to her car, I took out a thing I cleaned her car, while she was. When I got in the car she was like that's so sweet you cleaned my car. And it's like that means a lot to me, you know what I mean? Like those for someone she acknowledges certain things that are really important to me at least you know? [0:37:07] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: It was awesome, not even a thought. When I met her friend, I wasn't trying to win her over. I think I'm more and more aware of that wow I think I'm just being me. You know so, yeah. I think that there's just so much that's new (Laughing) I think I'm just like what the fuck is happening? (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah no it is crazy, it is crazy. I mean you're talking about somebody that like you know didn't understand why I had acne.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. Embarrassed the shit out of me. Made me the topic of discussion.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, my mom was what is this? We didn't have this when we were yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: I told you this, yeah. And to the point where my uncle got me a gift certificate to umm what's that place on something Taylor? It's like a woman's, Elizabeth Taylor. He got me a gift certificate to that, and my mom took me. In fucking high school. I'll never forget that. That was wow, that one probably did some fucking damage. Yeah and there was like pretty women there, and they're like I gotta work on this high school boy? It was a fucking travesty. But yeah that's what we're talking about.
CLIENT: Yeah, it would just be a topic.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. Yeah yeah.
CLIENT: Like somehow back in Assyria people didn't have things. I mean when I pushed them on it then they'll be like yeah well it's true they just lock them up in the house, or yeah actually there were those two guys they were probably gay. You know like. But there's just I think they're just, they're so conformist, they're so scared of anything. Because they're just so insecure. You know that they just want to blend in and be like everybody else. And they don't want any, like I'm assuming I don't know what the fuck their neuroses are, but that's a whole fucking decade of unraveling. Yeah like acne they don't understand. Like yeah you name it they don't get it.
CLIENT: Right, of course.
CLIENT: Of course, of course, yeah yeah yeah.
CLIENT: Like it's just this bizarre, warped you know?
CLIENT: I guess. Yeah.
CLIENT: No there was none of that. There was none of that.
CLIENT: I mean you're fighting back, but you're still being damaged. I mean because I was a smart kid. You know and I thought what the fuck are you talking? You know I'd like, and I used to have a bit more of a temper so I'd let them have it sometimes. But that wouldn't really help the situation.
CLIENT: No, no.
CLIENT: But what ended up happening is I embraced this outsider, I'm a freak kind of thing so fuck you.
CLIENT: Exactly. So I'd shave my head or I'd do weird things, or I'd write on my shirts, or I'd you know. And that's you know I'm kind of proud of that, but yeah I'm, that's exactly what happened. I created this image of myself that had nothing to do with anything. [0:46:06] (pause)
CLIENT: So Thursday at 12:50?
CLIENT: Sounds good. So, I don't know what's going on this week, the thing that I've been really noticing, and something I've had all along that I think we haven't really addressed in here. I think it's important because it really bothers me, but I feel super, it hasn't been nonstop all week, but I've been feeling like super aggravated and melancholy/ lethargic. That's not a good combination. I don't know, like today I'm super fucking annoyed, every little thing, and I don't know I just don't like that. [0:01:03] That's the kind of thing that my friend Dave does, who I kind of like will joke, but once in awhile I'm like that too, like it just really bothers me that I get like that.
CLIENT: Today was like the first thing was I go out there, trash, garbage was yesterday, or this morning and it's like I just get annoyed (muttering) downtown has these new trash bin things, which is great but I went out there and one of the neighbors bins had somehow gotten on our side, and I don't know why it just sets me off. Annoyed the fucking shit out of me. [0:02:00]
CLIENT: I don't know I just feel really aggravated, it's bothering me.
CLIENT: I'm like oh what if I don't, you know. What if I don't perform well sexually or what if I snore when we're sleep? Like weird little, you know what I mean? Like I don't know man, it's really weird. (pause) But I just figured, because I don't know if we've ever talked about that in here. On my way here I was like you know what? I just don't like it, it's not. Obviously its part of me, but it's not really me you know what I mean? I don't like getting so worked up about these things. [0:06:02]
CLIENT: No that's the thing, I think that's what I decided today, this isn't a small thing. Just like I don't think it, because that's what I thought. I thought of my friend Dave. I was like when he gets like this I don't think it's a small thing. Right, I always think man this poor guy like there's something deep in him that you know, well it's the same thing. It's like everyone gets aggravated a little here or there. But these moments of just intense, like I'm giving myself a headache. [0:07:10] It's like my head hurts. It's like there's no reason for that. It's a nice day out, I'm here, like what's the problem you know?
CLIENT: You mean personally how?
CLIENT: I don't really know what it is. It's just yeah, it's just kind of like it's too close for comfort, I feel like. You know? Or then I'll feel like how the fuck can Tricia be ready to talk to me or anybody now when she just talked to this person, you know? I don't know, it's just like a combination of all these, but yeah the bottom line of it, it just feels too close for comfort somehow. It feels like things are (pause) there's isn't like breathing, a buffer or room. [0:09:00]
CLIENT: Like I'd rather go there 10 o'clock at night and just feel calm and there's plenty of room and you know. Now some of that I think a lot of people do that. I mean I have friends who are like that too, they don't want to fucking go to Target when it's a zillion people. But I think that there's definitely more, you know?
CLIENT: Well but it is though. It's claustrophobic in terms of like this fantasy that somehow they're encroaching on my space. That's like what
CLIENT: Exactly. Like you have all this room, why is your shit here? I don't get that, you know. Intellectually I do get it in a way, because it's like probably there were cars there, parked. They're fucking garbage guys they came, they took the cans, that's where they saw there was some space to leave that, and they fucking left. I mean they're not you know. I know that no one is doing anything on purpose, but it's more how I'm reacting to it. (pause).
CLIENT: And the weird thing was I woke up and I got a lot done. Like I did some errands, I took, you know like I've been kind of on top of things, you know? So I didn't even know why like. (pause) [0:13:05]
CLIENT: I have a feeling that it's a lot of the other stuff that's being going on, which is that a lot of this aggravation or whatever, it's not in the present. You know what I mean? It's like some old thing that's coming up in situations that are not really that aggravating.
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean I'm just saying that I think it's probably old
CLIENT: I don't know. Just, I think I'm just thinking about being a kid and like when I'd lose my temper. Obviously there was something going on. Obviously my family annoyed or whatever the fuck, I don't know. But (pause) [0:16:05]
CLIENT: I mean I don't know, I guess just like. I don't know, not getting along with my mom, or feeling alone or bored. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, angry, annoyed.
CLIENT: Not when I was a kid, I don't think I felt claustrophobia. It's now that I feel [0:17:06] (15 sec pause)
CLIENT: See even that noise annoys the shit out of me. I hate that! I hate that I'm like that, that's awful, that's so awful.
CLIENT: Yeah because it's I mean it's a little too much. Like every little thing like sets me off. Like it really makes me super angry. And that's like what? They're just someone sitting there, they're not. It's just so, you know what it is? It's just feels so childish like it's so fucking immature. (pause)
CLIENT: No, no, no. They do matter. I'm just saying. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah right, exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, or like in the past, like I am very sensitive to noise, it does bother me, but I've got really good at just being like okay we all make a little, we all live in a society so no one is doing it on purpose. Like I've gotten better, way better at that. But yeah but then when it's days like this it's like every little thing becomes.
CLIENT: Just what I was saying like it becomes my fate for the day.
CLIENT: That it's not going to be a peaceful day. Like I can't just have like a mellow, peaceful. Yeah I don't know, I don't know what it is. For example oh I'm gonna go to Starbucks, and this is gonna be the one day where it's a fucking madhouse. I can't get a place to sit and I've gotta leave. I can't, or I'm just gonna stand there for awhile waiting for some douchebag to leave, and like it's not gonna be an easy day. It's not gonna be an I don't know. [0:21:16] Then I think what happens is that then trickles or turns into self-defeated thoughts, you know what I mean? Like well I'm not gonna fucking go to the gym. I'm not like, you know. It just becomes very self. Basically what happens on days like this, when it's this bad is I'm paralyzed for the day. Like I just wanna get through the day. I can't do anything, I can't think straight. I can't really enjoy anything. It's very difficult. (pause) [0:22:11]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. Like what bothers me ultimately to about that is like I end up feeling like this total futility. Like I just, like I'm, you know? It's tied into that whole self-defeating. (pause) [0:24:06]
CLIENT: As a baby though? I mean what, I can't even, quite understand that. Because I mean the weird thing is that I think as a baby that's when I was most loved. I was, there were no other babies in the family, I was the first one. And, I've seen all pictures, photos, and stuff like, you know, I'm the center of attention. So I can see how that would be the case when I got a little bit older. Or maybe, maybe there's something I'm not aware of. (pause) [0:25:08]
CLIENT: That's interesting, yeah that's a good point, people can't just suddenly change when you're 4 or 5.
CLIENT: That's a good point. Especially with their miscarriage and everything. Maybe she projected her anger on me, or weird feelings or whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah, or that's the opposite that everything is invested in this one kid. Actually that's more like what it is.
CLIENT: After me.
CLIENT: No. I think it was in North Carolina. (pause) I mean it's definitely before I have memory. I have no memory at all of her being pregnant or anything like that. Any. So I'm assuming it was before I was five. Like four. Maybe it was here then, I don't know. (pause)
CLIENT: Her sisters have two. Her brother has three, you know. And also I'm sure my Dad had five siblings, I'm sure he wanted one more. (pause)
CLIENT: Recently yeah. (pause) [0:29:13]
CLIENT: I wonder if it's connected somehow. That's really been on my mind, that's like what the fuck? Or even New York, like suddenly I'm not hearing back from any venues. I don't know. That's been kind of annoying.
CLIENT: Whereas I feel like in the past, all this annoying, when I feel this annoyed, generally I point at things and say well this isn't going well, this isn't going well. I don't have a girlfriend, I you know what I mean? I don't have that now. I don't know, this morning I woke up, I wrote a bunch of bills, I you know, I don't know. I had a breakfast. You know what I mean? Like I don't know. I don't. (pause)
CLIENT: No I'm saying I don't get why this week in particular. Or why it's been so
CLIENT: Yeah kind of. Sad, and mostly aggravated yeah. [0:34:02] (pause)
CLIENT: Maybe. Yeah, I mean yeah I wouldn't be surprised. They say isn't anger just like sadness or something?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that's true. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that is true. It is bad. Or like my band can't go on tour with me, or like all these things I like either have to end up doing alone, or yeah. (long pause) [0:37:21]
CLIENT: And maybe that's why with seeing Kelly tomorrow, maybe that's what's happening? It's like when I feel this whatever, aggravated and angry or sad or whatever, it's that feeling like yeah but you know brace yourself because I'm sure something will go wrong. It won't work out, or like this is doomed, or something, I don't know if that's the feeling but. (pause) [0:38:13]
CLIENT: No it started Tuesday. I saw a really crazy dream Monday night, and Tuesday I literally woke up, and this never happened. I woke up feeling kind of just melancholy and blah. I just wasn't feeling it. Tuesday was a weird day.
CLIENT: The dream was I was in a bar and made friends with an NBA player in a bar who's also in movies.
CLIENT: I'm trying to drive, I can't keep my eyes open. I'm exhausted. But other than that it was like really beautiful. I don't know. But I woke up and I was just super, I just woke up down, yeah.
CLIENT: When I woke up?
CLIENT: Yeah definitely felt a little bit discomDaveulated a little bit. That's why I immediately wrote it down, I was like what the fuck was that all about? [0:42:08]
CLIENT: I guess. Huh, yeah. Yeah that part of the dream I don't understand. I didn't know what that was all about, it was so beautiful and peaceful. [0:43:15] (pause)
CLIENT: I guess yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (pause) And I don't know why I'm always, I can't drive without feeling awful.
CLIENT: Now I don't know if this started after the DUI thing? You know maybe?
CLIENT: No? oh, okay.
CLIENT: Ok yeah I guess. Well just because I don't remember having this recurring dream for years and years and years. It feels relatively just in the last few years. Then again I never used to remember my dreams, so who the hell knows. But yeah that's the big. Not so much even running, it really is driving. There will be a lot of driving and awful driving. Where I feel like shit. In the past I would rationalize like well maybe it's because I'm snoring. So I'm actually not sleeping well, and (chuckling) [0:45:08]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it's I'm trying to get somewhere, but I don't feel completely. It's as if the car is driving me, I don't know what road I'm on. I can usually not recognize anything. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah it's not like ok I'm gonna get in the car and go see Dave. Or I'm gonna get in the car and drive to the coast. Or I'm just suddenly in the forest somewhere. It's beautiful but you know. [0:46:05] (pause)
CLIENT: 310?
CLIENT: [00:00:10] So, nice office.
CLIENT: Huh?
CLIENT: Oh, I don't know.
CLIENT: Uh, well, yeah. I mean, I was thinking about, like, yesterday. At first, it was cool because when I left her I felt better, so it was nice. And then I went home. My uncle was over, so I went downstairs to see him and we hung out and stuff. And it was just ironic because I got home, I got an estimate for the...we have a really bad leak that we've been trying to fix for years. And it's just driving us crazy...well, mostly my mom. It's over her dining room floor...the roof...whatever. So I took care of that. Then I called a guy about refinancing the house to a lower rate. [00:01:08] So it was just funny because I was thinking. I'm like, "Well, you know, I'm so aggravated or whatever." But, you know, I've been taking care of stuff in a way that I haven't been before. So that, and the thing was, I could have gotten more aggravated because, like, the refinancing can be done, but it's not going to be easy because it's, like, under my mom's name and she's retired. So she doesn't have as much income. Her credit's not as good anymore because she's retired and she's kind of extended. You know? Like, that affects your credit score if you're...you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So I could have gotten aggravated by that, you know? But then I was like, "Well, whatever." I mean, so if we don't refinance, we'll still have the mortgage we have. [00:02:00] You know what I mean? Like, there was that. And then with the roof, you know, right now we don't have the money to fix the roof, but you know, I was like, "Whatever." We got an estimate and we can figure it out. You know? So (pause) I don't know. So that got me thinking in general and then I was, like, you know, I wonder if this little "blah" thing I've been feeling, maybe it's because it's, like, a reckoning. You know, it's, like, this is my life. You know? So maybe it's just, like, (pause) you know? It's, like, not really depression but it's, like, just, like, this, you know, if you've been in fantasy land your whole life, then you're, like, oh, even when things go well, it's not some song and dance. Like, it's not some...you know what I mean? But it's just is what it is. You know what I mean? It's (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the thing. That, yeah, that...
CLIENT: No, that's the thing. It's not depressing. I mean, yeah, I did all that stuff yesterday. Then I went and I worked with Dave on the record. Finished and went out and had a beer. Like, there's nothing to be depressed about. I think it's just, like, a landing, you know what I mean? Like, it's just like, "Oh, it's not a hit." Not that head in the clouds kind of stuff, you know? (pause) [00:04:04] And also just I try to get, you know...like, I was talking to Dave and, you know, he's trying to kind of get a small business off the ground. He doesn't have any fucking money, you know? Like, his mom is struggling with cancer, you know, like, I don't know. I just...I think what it is, is that I'm...I think I don't know what to do. It just goes back to that feeling of (pause) I just feel weird that things are kind of just going pretty well or do it whatever, you know? That doesn't take away from that. I mean, all that aggravation stuff, I think that is definitely some old thing. But I guess what I'm saying, though, is that it's a huge change to just have a moment of that or whatever. But then, you know, the rest of the day was perfectly fine. [00:05:02] You know what I mean? Like I wasn't... (pause) There was no real, like, dwelling or, like, it didn't spiral out of control or whatever, you know? It was just, you know, it's, like, I handled it. You know? I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I've stopped beating myself up. Because I'm like...this whole week I've kind of done, you know, I've been sleeping a lot. Or even if I haven't been sleeping a lot, I've been staying in bed a lot. [00:06:04] But I don't know, I don't feel bad about it. I mean, if I had to be somewhere at whatever time, I'd be there. You know what I mean? I don't. Whatever, you know? Like, you know, or, like, actually, this morning, kind of diagonally across the street, there's been a gas station that's been closed for a while. So at fucking 7:00 this morning, there's some noise and drilling. I think they're trying to check to see if there's any pollution or leakage underneath, you know? I don't know, it didn't really bother me. You know? Because it was fucking loud. You know? It was kind of cool, I was like, "Well, you know, they're just doing what they need to do and it'll be done at some point."
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: I think maybe when I was here, I just got things out of my system, maybe, that made me just more aware, you know? I mean, I was already...when I came in, I was already aware, right, that I was, like, and this definitely has nothing to do with Dunkin Donuts or whatever. So maybe, yeah, when I left I just felt I just got it out of my system, I guess. I just, you know, got more perspective and...I don't know. I don't know what happened. Or maybe when I went home and I just saw my uncle, my family, it just kind of distracted me or something maybe from not...well, actually, yeah, so I got home and then the guy came for the estimate. So it was almost immediate. So I think I just kind of, you know... He was a super, super nice guy...a really nice guy. He was a poet. He recited poetry. Yeah, he was a really quirky dude. And I could tell he was a master, like, he knows what the fuck he's doing. [00:08:00] (pause) Yeah, he was a very sweet, old dude. Like, he has a little trouble hearing, and you can tell he's, like, like, a true craftsman kind of guy. And he was telling jokes, he recited poems that he'd written to his wife. Really quirky guy, yeah. So then I just got caught up in just what was happening, you know? (pause) And I just forgot about it. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, not at all. No, not at all.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, it was more like the kind of thing where I like people like that. His poems were awful. They were fucking awful. But I just love that he was so genuine and, like, open and giving. He was, like, you know, that's...he was telling my mom, he was, like, "That's your mom? She's a beautiful lady." He was very charming and, like, quirky. You know? A very sweet guy. And (pause) no, it's more I admire him. I admire people like that who, you know, he took over...said they've been in business since, like, for 95 years or something. So I like that tradition and, you know, I like that he's a business guy but he's (pause) you know, the way business people should be. You know, kind of more light-hearted and kind of well-rounded. I don't know. Whatever. But a very, really nice guy. [00:10:05] And also, it was cool because I didn't feel embarrassed. It was kind of cool in a way, because I was like, you know, I'm a poet. And it was cool because my uncle was there, my mom was there and at that point, they kind of, like, disappeared from the scene. You know what I mean? Like, they were there, but they don't know. Like, it was kind of...I don't know how to explain it. But (pause) I, like, they don't get to see me in that, you know, like I am a poet. You know what I mean? Like, and to see someone who was, like, "Oh, wow, really?" You know, to see this, like, businessman, you know, and he was totally, like, "Really?" He's, like, "How did you get published? What publisher?" You know? So that kind of felt good, you know? Because I'd never...that's never on their radar. You know? [00:11:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yep, yep. And...but I think what felt even better was...and I'm not just saying this to you now, but in the moment, I didn't care. Like, I wasn't, like, "Oh, this is my chance so they can see I'm a real poet." You know? I just talked to the guy.
CLIENT: You know? I didn't give a shit. You know? I walked him out, he recited another poem for me. And, you know... (Pause)
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I just think that's the hard part about all this, is that all those things (pause) yeah, there's...because I guess there's been so much sadness, it's weird. You know what I mean? Like, (pause) I don't know. I don't know how to explain it. [00:12:00] (Pause) It's like today, I was texting Kelly. I just wanted to hang out tonight. And I was, like, "Hey, you know, I hope you're having a good Friday. I'm looking forward to seeing you or whatever." And, like, she wrote back. It was so, like, genuine. Like, all she wrote was, "Me, too...a lot." And that's just, like, that's so real. You know what I mean? Like, it's not...I don't know. Like, it's just very, I've never really had something like that that's so (pause)...well, I shouldn't say that. I guess I have had it, but where it's so, like, I feel just as strongly, you know? [00:13:00] (pause) And I think, you know, maybe it's that, like, I guess I still...there's some deep thing about, like, things don't last or, you know, (pause) that somehow things will get fucked up maybe or...I don't know. Yeah, there's something just melancholy. I can't explain it. [00:14:08] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. Or that I still feel nervous. Like, one little wrong...if I make one tiny little misstep, that, you know, people will change their minds or things will completely, you know... (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, but I figured I wasn't going to be, but I was like, you know, but I've never done that. So it was like, it's probably healthier to just be honest, you know, it's not a big deal but it's just good to.
CLIENT: I mean, after I left?
CLIENT: It was, like, I didn't think about it. I didn't think about it. Because, like I said, I knew that that's really not what I'm aggravated about. I mean, Jesus, three minutes? Five, whatever? That's...I just knew that that was just one more thing that's triggering this crazy, you know, irrational kind of...
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, it's a compliment to you, right? Like, I might want to be here as many minutes as I can be, right? So, yeah. I mean, (pause) yeah. I mean, when you're looking forward, you know, to something, then you want to... (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I totally know.
CLIENT: I totally know. You don't have to...I know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, or maybe, you know, it's subconsciously...maybe because I've been so good about being on time. Like, even today, I was, like, "Fuck me, I'm five minutes late." You know what I mean? Like, because I've been...that's been a really good feeling, like, "Jesus, wow. I guess I'll take a walk around the block and, like, hey, just check my e-mail or whatever." So...(pause) yeah. But, yeah. No, like I said, it's not all those things are, you know, I go to the same Dunkin Donuts every day. You know? I know the people. They're nice people. They're not, like, conspiring to be slow or to take their break right when I get there. You know what I mean? Like, all that stuff is just, you know, [00:18:00] it's when you're taking things too personally. Almost in a narcissistic way. You know? Like, as if the minute you walk out the door, everything's, like, just your own movie set. You know what I mean? Like, you're the star and people are just extras. You know, like, I don't...it's not a good way to be.
CLIENT: To have in mind that you would know that I was aggravated?
CLIENT: No. What do you mean? I don't follow.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: No. I was worried, when I came and said, "No, I don't hide things well." That was weird. I'm, like, "Man, I'm going to seem aggravated." You know? Because I didn't...I know when it's a day like that, it's sometimes hard for me to [00:19:01], you know...unless I've had time to kind of...you know what I mean? But, you know, because things had just happened, so I was, like, "Oh, fuck." And it seemed like, you know... That was the only thing I was thinking. So I thought I might seem, like, a little, I don't know, grumpy or something. You know?
CLIENT: What? That's spooky. What do you mean?
CLIENT: Oh, I didn't think about that.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right, and that may be...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, and somehow being, like, secondary to something else. You know? Either this other patient or...you know, like, remember, like, I was...I don't know if it was...I'm sure we might have...remember, like, for a while I was kind of, like, really frustrated with Dave? How he couldn't fit, you know...that was much of the same feeling. I was feeling like he's doing other things. He's clearly not making me a priority. You know? Somehow thinking that it was really personal. You know? And, but like you said, of course it was real. I mean, he's just a non-committal kind of...he does that. But he doesn't sit around saying, "How can I do that to Brian?" You know? He just does that. That's what he does. You know? He does it to a lot...I mean, other people that know Dave talk to me about how Dave...they ask me. You know what I mean? Like, I see him, even in his...even though he's that way with me, he's way worse with other people who, you know...[00:22:00] But, yeah, you're right. I think these things that happen are real things that happen that my reaction to them is not about those things. It's about...yeah, just feeling like I'm being kind of brushed aside or something. Yeah. That I'm being...it's a kind of belittling feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Huh, I just had, like, a major fucking thought. [00:23:00] I think my mom is my grandfather. You know? As much as he was tough on her and they would, you know, she kind of...not that she complains, but she, you know, she kind of does. And that's all real. I mean, he really was. But I think that that's...she was that way with me in a different way. You know? In a feminine version. You know? So it was loving and smothering, but not thoughtful and treating me like a person. You know what I mean? Just like she wasn't treated like a person, you know?
CLIENT: Well, yeah. Just this sense of, like, you know, she's told me stories about it. Which really is amazing. I mean, she's told me stories about how he would dictate letters and make her write letters to, like, you know, they called it the HQ. Like basically, like, the Communist headquarter there. [00:24:00] And, like, there had been times...she would go and deliver the letter. So you know, like, a 16-year-old girl, a very pretty 16-year-old girl going to these, you know, like the Soviet-era, very intimidating buildings, you know? Things like that. Or, yeah, that, I mean, just he was very tough with her. She was the oldest, you know? So he was tough with all of them, especially all the girls. Like, just, you know, they weren't really equal. Like, he just always thought of them as kind of second-class. But because my mom was the oldest, there was a special kind of, you know...so, yeah, she's told me things like that. I mean, now they talk about it kind of more openly, that, you know, he was a touch man and he wasn't...(pause) like, he was good-hearted, but not necessarily a good father and so, like, you know...and yeah, I mean, I think that she was maybe just, you know, like [00:25:04]...what's that?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, and I'm sure kind of unintentional. But it doesn't matter. You know, it doesn't matter. Yeah, there was something kind of callous about her. Yeah. Which is too bad, because if she'd been more like my grandmother, I think shit would have been different. But none of them were like my grandma. (pause)
CLIENT: Well, just that, like, you know, just that, like, kind of, like, you know, like, "I love you, but you know, you're going to be an engineer." You know? "And I'm going to do everything I can to put you in school." You know, that...there's the functional kind of...but callous in a sense that, like, "I love you, but I don't think of you as a separate person who is going to grow up to...who knows?" You know, like, that the future is open to you and [00:26:03], you know, I'm going to get to know you and your personality. You know what I mean? Like, so...(pause) you know, so...because otherwise it's just like a...first of all, it's conditional. You know? But second of all, it's all about, like, conformity. You know? I'm going to love you, blah-blah-blah, but you can't, you know, you've got to be like all the other Armenian people's sons and you know, like, it's all about kind of blending in and (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Exactly.
CLIENT: Right. Right. (pause)
CLIENT: I think that's why, overall, it also feels better. Like, I'm being better at just kind of being. You know what I mean? So it's, you know, I like that. So even, like, like, this week...but you know, like, I don't feel that great. You know what I mean? But I don't...like, I kind of don't care that I don't feel that great. In a good way. You know, I'm just, like, "Whatever." You know? Whereas I think, you know, before I (pause) I'd be introspective in a negative way. You know what I mean? Like, with the light on, I feel great. Everybody else seems like they feel good. What...I don't feel that anymore. I'm, like, "You know what? Most people are feeling shitty." [00:29:01] (laugh) It's not, you know, I'm doing much better than I think I'm doing. You know? (pause) Because I think that's one thing I'm realizing. That even, like, coming here, one thing I think, like, there does have to be a place where you're kind of, like...(pause) I don't want to say, like, "suck it up," or whatever. But I think there is something kind of healthy and something about just, you know, like, it just is what it is. You know what I mean? And you can't, you know...as useful as, like, this or, like, whatever other kinds of things are, it's also important to be, like, "Well..." I mean, you can't take things back or you can't undo things or you can't rewrite what happened or...you know. [00:30:06] And I think I didn't have that before. Like, I couldn't let things go or I couldn't, you know, or I just couldn't be content while also knowing that shitty stuff happened. You know what I mean? And I think that's important. (Pause)
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right. (Pause) Yes, so what would happen is in the past, I'd intend to be stoic, and I was pretty good at it. You know what I mean? But now I feel like I'm genuine [00:31:01], you know, just (pause)...you know, some days are better than others. Whatever. And just, you know (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah, right, exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's totally true. (pause) And it's kind of the same thing as, like, you know, "Wherever you go, there you are." I mean, you can go to London, you can move to California, you can move wherever the fuck you want. But, you know, that's... (pause) [00:32:01] I just think the next, you know, (pause) you know, I think the elephant in the room was still, like, (pause) you know, that I'm...I still am somehow unable to be more (pause) I guess productive. But, you know, I'm still kind of...there's something, you know, that keeps me from (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And, like, I'm better...like, I'm not beating myself up for staying at home or staying in bed, but that, you know, it does make me kind of restless and kind of (pause)...and even, I confuse myself. [00:33:01] Basically, I'm like, I don't understand what, like, why am I not savoring this time? And, like, how great I can do whatever the fuck I want? So why am I not excited to go, "Okay, I'm going to sit down and record a song?" Or "Hey, I'm going to go somewhere and write or read or..." Like, why am I not...you know what I mean? Part of that, I know, is that more...it's very common. It's, like, a lot of people get that. If they just have time on their hands, they don't...not doing, you know...but that I know that that's not me. Because when I have worked 9 to 5, I don't come home and write songs. That's not, like, that's not me. Like, I do have stuff I really do want to do, but for some reason I just...I don't know what that's about. [00:34:00] (pause) [00:35:15] I wonder if, like, it has something, like, maybe, like, every single time I try to...or I think about, like, writing or I will sit down and write a song or whatever...record, maybe the problem is that each one of those times, whether I actually do it or I even think about doing it, maybe it's that there's something very immediate, some other part of me, that immediately can't take that seriously. You know what I mean? That there's a part of me so deep that it's not even, like, the voice. It's not, like, there's not a voice. It's just something automatic. Something, like, that just says, "No, but you're, you know, you're not really a good writer or it's kind of too late or, you know, you're not going to be a rock star, come on." [00:36:08] Like, I wonder if that's what it is? You know? Like, I literally can't take myself seriously enough. Like, no, this is what I do. I'm a writer. So I sit down. You know what I mean? I never thought about that, but I can't think of what else it could possibly be. You know? It's as if it's, like, been beaten out of me or something, you know? It's, like, I've lost touch with that, like, not even thinking about it. Like, I would just sit down and it was just fun, like, I, you know, on a typewriter no less.
CLIENT: And it's, like, now I just...I think there must be something really deep that immediately just (pause)...I don't know. [00:37:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And the irony, of course, is when I was, like, 17 or 16, I was writing articles in the newspaper I later became editor of. Right? For that year or two. Oh, no, I really didn't know until later, but, like, 2000 or 1999 or whatever. But, yeah, when I was...yeah, I'd write articles for them, essays. My first poems were in that newspaper. You know? It's just, like, what? Like, sitting there on a fucking typewriter, no TV, no computer, no nothing. You know? I'd sit down, I'd get, like, a Coke and I'd put a lemon in it. I don't know why. With ice. I'd have some, like, nuts or some shit. And, you know, it's like, I don't know whether it's...but yeah, you're right. That's the problem. It's, like, that's the age where you need...I mean, the newspaper was mirroring me. That's great. [00:39:00] But you need people that are, you know, in your family or your parents or your whatever to push you. You know? Otherwise it's (pause)... But I don't know, there are a lot of people that don't have that that still get their work out there. I don't know. I don't...maybe at some point...they had it when they were kids or something, and I don't know. I don't know. But...
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's very true, yeah. It's, you know, it's easy to pick up and move to New York City where...because it's your country. Like, truly your country. There's no feeling of, like, "Oh, I don't know Tricia. What's Tricia's background?" Okay, wouldn't even be a thought. It's, like, you know, but yeah, when you're...when you're brought up in that bubble of us versus them, those things are off the table. To, like, go and just be a part of this, you know, reach out to people or just be part of society. You know? Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's three times. Like, 7? Have a good weekend.
CLIENT: How's it going?
CLIENT: So....things have been kinda good. It's been good. (pause) Been like (finger drumming), it's funny now that like, it's kinda good, things since things with Kelly (sp) seem to be really good, whatever. It's good, I think I'm doing a good job of not really thinking about it. Which is nice, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, you know. [00:01:43] She was over Friday night and when she left Saturday morning we were gonna, she was like "I'll text you" cause I was gonna go to a, I have a good acquaintance who, he and his wife run a cool, like vintage kind of store, and they were having their holiday party during the day yesterday. So I was like "you know, thinking about going to that if you want to go" so she was going to text me Saturday to let me know if she could.
CLIENT: And I, I mean that's how much I've not been thinking, but now I kind of really remember what happened but she...Oh now I do remember. She didn't text me most of Saturday, she works on weekends as well, she has two jobs so...It was like I didn't, I don't know, I didn't really care kind of, you know? I was like whatever and then I also didn't over, I was like well I'm not gonna text her, you know? Then around like ten o'clock Saturday night I was like, you know, "hope you had a good day", you know, whatever. [00:02:52] And then, she was like "yeah I did some work after...", you know? So after work her and her best friend, work, they're both filmmakers so they're working on some projects together. So I didn't, like, and she didn't mention anything about Sunday but I didn't...I was like "who cares", really it's not a big deal. It's not like I was making some serious plans, I just mentioned this thing that I might go to, it's not....So it was kind of cool, like I just didn't care you know? And then Sunday she texted me in the morning "hey, I have the day off today, but I'm spending it with my son, we're going around getting a Christmas tree." I had no problem, I was like, "I'll text you anyways when I'm in your neighbor...when I'm in that area." It was totally fine, you know? It was good that I didn't, you know? Then later in the day she sent me pictures of her son and her brother doing the tree, you know, she's cool, she's really...[00:04:01] Not to mention that Friday for the first time she kind of mentioned that "yeah, my brother's been telling me to tell Brian (sp) to come over so we can jam." So obviously she's talking about it more than I am, you know? I only just recently have told a couple of people you know? But she's told people at work, told her brother, you know? I don't know. So yeah it's been...I just don't, I'm in a good..., I don't know. For now at least I feel good, I just feel like let's just see what happens. It feels really good and...So that's nice. (pause) Then the other big deal was I did go to that thing yesterday which was kind of a big deal cause I don't do, you know? I just got in the car, got my coffee and then went down there. I just don't do things like that, you know? [00:05:17] So it felt nice, it was really nice to...and actually I got her a nice necklace while I was there but, you know it was nice to catch up with old acquaintances. It was nice. I don't know (finger drumming). And on my way there, I was in the car and I was thinking about, you know, I wish I was writing more now but I'm just not, you know, I'm working on music and that's...I'm excited about it, you know, so that's fine. Especially because now I'm not just writing songs, now I really want to get back to recording, like in the past when I would just record myself, you know, and that takes some effort, there's a learning curve and all that but ...So I was like "yeah, I'm busy with that." (finger drumming) [00:06:25]
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: What is?
CLIENT: Yeah. But I am, I decided, the English department now is a doctor of Arts, so I might (inaudible) just last night.
CLIENT: In London. And I'm just gonna be like "listen man, just, can I just finish this fucking thing" and just...you know? The requirements are different for a doctor of Arts then a... you know, there isn't so much of that scholarly side of it, it's more fine arts. I'm just gonna be like "look I just want to finish this thing." [00:07:28] So hopefully that, you know...
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: I'm assuming just to hand in my second book, with maybe some kind of, even if there is some critical component it won't be, like a scholarly dissertation, so that way I can somehow crank it out and be done, you know?
CLIENT: Of course, the only thing is, I have a feeling it'll cost more money, you now what I mean? Cause even when you're writing you're dissertation there are...
CLIENT: You still pay, you know so, I don't...(pause)
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. I just want to be done, I just really want to be done. I mean really right now I would say the thing that's actually stressing me out the most is more like financial stuff. Just because I feel like I'm, like I'm trying to refinance our house and it's hard now cause my mom's retired so she doesn't really have, other than her retirement and the rent there is no source of income. [00:08:50] The mortgage is on her so like the rates are so...I mean our rate isn't bad but, you know, I want to, if we could drop it a whole percent that's saving a lot of money you know? But as usual these things are all ass-backwards, right, the people that need the lowest rates the most, have to have the best credit and...you know what I mean? So I'm trying to figure, I don't know, so there's little...that leak in my mom's dining room is starting to take on a metaphorical (laughs). It's like, it's getting to the point where now I'm annoyed legitimately, I'm not annoyed because there's a sound or anything, I'm annoyed because my poor mom, like, that's you know, this woman, she sits there with that fucking leak. She likes to sit in that area, that's her spot so it's like "what the fuck man?" That's just really annoying me that, you know, I don't know. So that's my priority right now, there's no reason why a house with this much equity...you know, there's no way to lower the rate and have a little bit of an equity line to take care of a leaky roof? It's just unacceptable. [00:10:07] I don't know. So right now that's my main, I just, it's annoying me and then...I'm still kind of, everything's like paycheck to paycheck, you know? Frustrating. My uncle's in a pretty, he's really stressed these days so I don't feel like I can, you know...which is connected to the fact that my grandmother's doing a lot worse, she's not eating anymore so it's kind of sad. And she's not even, like she was at our house, and usually my grandmother's very affectionate with me and I was trying to feed her and stroking her hair and hugging her and kissing her and she was kind of not, she was just like sitting there, like sleeping a lot...She's definitely much more disconnected. [00:11:17] It's hard, obviously for my mom, my uncle, they're pretty stressed and bummed out. But....Totally unrelated but I'll forget, if you know any psychiatrists that deal with any kind of eating disorders, they're hiring. (laughs) Cause they said they've had some bad luck with some, whatever. That has nothing to do with the fact that his wife is very difficult, that's a whole other story. Yeah, so he's, I feel like I can't really, like he knows about all these things and he is trying to help, like he gives me good advice, you know, but, I just don't feel like I can ask for anything more than that. [00:12:24] Not that I even want to but I do want to get this done, you know, I want to find a way to make this happen. (pause) But even that kind of feels good, like I feel like I'm doing stuff, you know, like I'm being proactive, my student loans I think are pretty much all, got my ducks in a row I think, you know?
CLIENT: Well, because you know the thing is, like now it's like when you kind of are more lucid, almost realizing it's not just about that it's...I've also been doing myself a disservice, I'm not taking advantage of my own fucking house, you know what I mean? My mom and I don't have the kind of relationship where it's her house and one day when she's not there then maybe it'll be mine, you know what I mean? [00:13:29] My mom would like nothing more than for me to, for both of us to benefit, you know what I mean? Of course she wants the rate to be a little lower and blah blah blah, but really she would have no problem if, you know what I mean, like...so that's a big deal for example, it's a tiny thing but it's not, it's a big thing. If we had an equity line right, I would take let's say 500 dollars, which is nothing when you think about it...for example get like a secured credit card, right, you know, that helps you rebuild credit. It's a little thing but it makes a big difference, it helps you, you know?
CLIENT: So, these are little things that I'm not able to do, or for example go to a friends wedding. I couldn't' go to my friends wedding. You know, you're not gonna willy nilly spend money but it gives you some breathing room to just be able to do some things that are important to you. Not to mention, to reinvest in your fucking house, keep the equity up, whatever. [00:14:35] It's very important, it's gotta get done. (thumping) (pause) So then I was like "of course there's a way to get it, what am I an idiot?" Of course it might be the rate might be a little higher, you know what I mean, if credit scores are so ...whatever. There's always... it's impossible for there not to be some bank, somewhere that's not gonna give you a line of credit when you have hundreds of thousands of dollars of equity in a house. That's an impossibility. The rate might not be exactly what you want, you might not get the amount of credit that you want, whatever, but it doesn't, you know, that doesn't make any fucking sense. You know it's just a matter of calling a lot of banks and talking to them and being...(thumps) [00:15:42]
CLIENT: You know the funny thing was it wasn't even really a no the first thing was, we were going to try and get into an FHA loan with a 3.5 rate or something. Okay, well the guy couldn't do that, he was like "but we can do 4 percent." That's a fucking awesome... right now we pay 4.75...and it's fixed so, it's not....
CLIENT: Yeah. No, it wasn't a no. There's a way to get that done, you know? I think it was more maybe...yeah I don't even know but....I know what the problem was, it went from like "there's no closing costs, there's no this" to we have to do the whole fucking thing over again, appraisal, closing costs....you know? That was the only thing but...[00:16:42]
CLIENT: In the past I wouldn't even want to deal with it.
CLIENT: Yeah in the past I wouldn't have wanted to. Just because it would feel really overwhelming and frustrating and I just go to this dark place where it's like "oh, we don't have any money, rrr" or like angry and annoyed. Why don't I have anyone to...?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, whereas now, I mean, in other situations yes, that obviously that is...it's one thing to be alone the way we talk about in here, like that's a much different kind. When I think about this, well, lot's of people are alone when they deal with financial things, their homes, what the fuck does that mean? [00:17:56]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah exactly. My uncle's not just gonna write me a fucking check, but the guy's there, I can call him anytime and he gives me advice and he cares and he, I'm lucky to have that. Well and not only that like I said, now I'm realizing it's actually more exciting because that would make a big difference. My mom would save more money so she'd be happier, I'd be happier, being able to help her and being able to help myself and feeling more like we're being savvy instead of just being like things are just happening to us, you know what I mean? That doesn't make any sense. You have a leaky roof let's find a way to fix it. Which is why I got the estimate from that dude. I mean I know that we don't have the money to do it now but I was like let's just, if you do stuff like that you get closer to actually doing it. That's how I feel at least. It's almost like visualization or something, you know? [00:19:04] If you get a real estimate somehow it nudges you to find a way to just get the shit done. (pause) Or you know, like a little thing, my apartment, I love my apartment but for example I don't really have a living, the living room space is not a living room. There's a carpet and Dave's chair that was his dad's that I have there, the litter box and that's it. And just one old chair that the tenant left that's Cecelia's chair, she likes to go up there. It's not a big deal but it'd be nice if when I have two or three people over I don't have to take the dining room chairs and put them in my bedroom, just little things, to have a bigger bed. I can't do that right now. [00:20:03] Or even if I can I don't just want to take my paycheck, like you want to be able to have wiggle room. I don't want to just take $500 from my paycheck and buy a fucking bed, I'm not gonna do that. I'm also no going to take money from my mom to do it, she "I want to buy you a couch" and no, it shouldn't have to be that way. It's nice but, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I just feel like we should be beyond that. I have a full-time job for Christ's sake, we have a house. I just want to be able to take care of it. I don't want my poor mom to have to...just the fact that she wants to do it is nice enough, you know what I mean? I don't want her to have to do that. She already doesn't take rent sometimes, she doesn't...[00:21:14] (thumping) I've been really proud of her, I've got to say. My mom is wow, the way I see her take care of my grandmother it's like "holy shit." She's a very tough, like I've never seen my mom like that. She's in good spirits, she'll try to, she treats my grandmother so well, she has like so much patience. It's really impressive. It's very moving to see a seventy year old woman take care of her mother, it's like wow that's....
CLIENT: Incredible. Yeah, trying to feed her, and I think there's a lot of things she doesn't tell me, you know, she bathes her, just like hygiene stuff that I think I don't know about or she doesn't tell me about.
CLIENT: It's kind of obvious. [00:22:31] It's just amazing. On top of that the amazing thing is when I take Cecelia down she's so happy, like it's amazing she's so happy to see Cecelia and she's happy...she doesn't really, she's not quite as negative. It's kind of crazy. I don't know if her mother is making her realize, you know, you have to savor your time, blah, blah, blah or she's just...
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Son is what?
CLIENT: Yeah maybe, yeah. It's possible. (pause) I think that's been helping too. I'm not so angry about that situation anymore, like I just feel like you know I wish my family appreciated a little more what my mom does but I think they do. What am I expecting? Are they gonna give her a gold medal, have a parade? They get it. (laughs) I think they appreciate what she does and at the same time I feel like also she's taken on this role, it's not my business, like that's what she...no one's forcing her. My grandmother's not coming knocking on her door. She does it.[00:24:10] I think genuinely she feels like I'm not going to have my mother for very long. It's like she's the opposite of her sister who still hasn't come to visit her mom. It's unreal, it's unreal man, it's unbelievable. My mom has some issues but like this is beyond, I knew my aunt's a little loopy but I never expected something like this. Like honestly I don't think, like things can't be the same any more, you know what I mean? No matter what happens, it'll be like you never came to see....For example now when she sees my grandmother I already know what's going to happen. She's going to flip out, "she looks so old, blah blah". No fucking shit Sherlock, like you know? She's just...I wouldn't be surprised, not my mom but I wouldn't be surprised if my uncle, who's a fucking lamb, I wouldn't be surprised if he had some words for her. It's just...I've never seen like such denial, selfishness. [00:25:42] Anyway.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: I noticed it when my uncle was over, three days ago, four days ago and I was downstairs and yeah she wasn't eating and she was just sleeping.
CLIENT: At our house yeah.
CLIENT: He's, I mean my uncle's like, the last year for sure, he's stepped it up big time. Basically almost every other day or whatever he comes and he and my mom either try to take my grandmother out, although that's becoming... I guess he took them to Denny's yesterday, you know Denny's? It's kind of this IHOP-ey kind of place.
CLIENT: But it's family run that's been there forever so people from around here we all, you know, people take their kids, it's like a tradition or whatever. They somehow decided to go there, hadn't been there in years, they decided to go there and my grandmother was just a nightmare. [00:26:48] I guess she was yelling, not yelling at my uncle but was like "why are we here. Why did you bring me here?" Like it's over now, like the whole "let's go for coffee." Like she doesn't care anymore So what was the point? Oh yeah, I saw my grandmother. So I saw her with them a few days ago...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah because what happens is during the day if she's not with one of those ladies that take care of her...
CLIENT: She's either with my mom. Yeah, that's what's happening more because they can't take her anymore. A lot of times then my uncle will come over, spend a few...
CLIENT: They'll spend some time together and then in the evening another lady will. A few days ago I noticed that she definitely seemed, she slept basically, she didn't eat. But then yesterday, maybe because it was just me and my mom, my uncle wasn't there for like an added conversation. Also I ate with them, I didn't eat with them the other day, so because I was eating with them I really noticed that she just...I think she was even spitting her food out. [00:28:09] I didn't tell my mom but I think, she kept putting her napkin up to her mouth. I think she...
CLIENT: It's very sad, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's hard, it's gonna be really...
CLIENT: Yeah, it's gonna be really hard. I feel really sad for my mom you know? I'm almost worried that like this is giving my mom something to do in a weird way. I'm kind of worried that, you know, that's gonna hit my mom hard. I'm already like bracing myself to be like you gotta be with your friends, you gotta, you know? Luckily she has a good, more than my poor uncle. My uncle has nobody. [00:29:11] At least my mom has a lot of people. I know for a fact they'll be a lot of people coming over and they'll take good care of her, you know? And I'm there whereas my uncle, his kids are so removed, they don't have the same relationship with my grandparents so that means they can't give my uncle like, you know? It's very sad. (pause) But it's not, the thing though is, it's not a sadness like when my dad died, it's more like when my grandfather died. It's, she's gonna be 90. My god, this is only now. We've been lucky, how awesome that we've gotten so much time with our grandparents? [00:30:18] It's just more bittersweet, it's incredibly sad obviously, it's profound, but it's not like a traumatic, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's just the circle of life, you know, you can be really sad but at least accept it as was what supposed to happen. It was the same with my grandfather. I was really sad but, you know, ninety something years old, that's not too shabby. (pause) That's the other thing I was thinking. In the car I was thinking about you and I don't write about my family but you know what I've been....one of the new songs we play at shows, I actually wrote about my grandmother.
CLIENT: Yeah. The guys don't know that, I don't tell anybody that but a lot of the lyrics have to do with my grandmother. [00:31:29] I was like I actually do write about my family it's just not implicit, you know? (pause) Do we have time? There are two things I want...
CLIENT: I'll say the other one's kind of trivial but the one thing I was going to say about Kelly now that there's someone I really kind of care about and potentially, whatever, might get more serious over, the one thing I'm worried about is there's still, I don't know why, there's still a part of me that kind of worries that, "oh you know, but I wish, I wish there was someone who's Assyrian, you know? That worries me a little bit. Like for example, now that's it's maybe possibly a reality that I might go to Assyria, it worries me, you know, that I'm going to go there and there would be a lot of hot chicks and they're Assyrian, you know what I mean? I don't know, that worries me.[00:33:02]
CLIENT: Like for example, like yesterday I was with my friend. We went to some bars, whatever, he wanted to talk. My friend got, his wife left him, whatever. I didn't, of course, I look at girls, I'm not an idiot, I look at girls "oh she's hot" but I've no, I'm not tempted, you know what I mean? Let's say even if I am tempted, fine I'm tempted but nothing's gonna happen here. I'm worried that if there was an Assyrian chick that who I met who was really everything I wanted plus Assyrian, I'm worried that that would, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, that I would dump someone, ex whatever, that I would either cheat or dump someone.
CLIENT: Yeah for that and that would be so not cool, you know what I mean? That would be a really assholish thing to do.
CLIENT: Why what? [00:34:06]
CLIENT: Well if you have a serious relationship with someone and you're like "oh now I've met someone Assyrian, so now I'm done with you." It's as if that person's a placeholder until you meet, right? It's like saying I want a chick with big tits, you know "hey honey, you've been great for the last two years but I've finally met a chick who's like you but just has awesome tits, so now I've gotta move on, sorry." Like you're looking for that one, whatever that extra characteristic is.
CLIENT: Of course they're not. How's that justifiable to someone?
CLIENT: I don't think you can justify breaking someone's heart who you've not said anything like "listen, you know". It's one thing to date someone and be totally honest and be like " I struggle sometimes with my identity and blah blah blah." There's something, but I just worry that I could get really serious with someone because there's almost nothing to talk, what am I gonna say about it because I don't even know if that's real, do you know what I mean? [00:35:25] I could go to Assyria and be like "holy fuck, I'm glad I'm here" but, you know, looking forward to getting back to home. I just worry that, you know.
CLIENT: Except that obviously it's an important thing on the list. It's not just that they're blonde or brunette or whatever, it's, you know, something that I haven't' been able to find that's very rare so I feel like if I did find that, it'd be so unusual that it would almost like overpower me. Like my defenses wouldn't be strong enough (laughs) for that. So it's a little bit, but I also know that that's a little irrational because what does that even mean? That's like saying I'm gonna travel the world and when I find that, do you know what I'm saying?
CLIENT: I'm saying like, let's say I met a Kelly or a Samantha, well I mean they're nuts but, someone who has all the other things.
CLIENT: Plus they're Assyrian.
CLIENT: I have no idea. All I'm saying is there would be some, it would be very difficult to not get involved with that person. [00:36:52] That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: I don't mean like a fling, I mean there would be some romantic entanglement. Romantic entanglement (laughs). What a douche. Yeah, you know what I mean? I'd feel like "oh my god, all my life I've never met someone like this" and now I cant just, I need to, you know what I mean? Like I worry there would be something in me that would be like "you have to pursue this." That's a little unsettling. (pause)
CLIENT: (inaudible) I mean, yeah, I agree with that. You're saying it might be something that's important to me so there's nothing wrong with that.
CLIENT: Well, the issue...
CLIENT: No, no, no. I agree but the issue is that you get to a point where "what the fuck, I'm not gonna wait til I'm 50" to find someone who's, you know what I mean? I've not found that person yet so you're taking a huge risk to not allow someone else into your heart who has every other quality you want just because, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Right, right. When you say work out, there isn't even anyone to work out with, I mean it's an irrational, not everyone...
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.[00:39:05] See I guess I think of it as, I mean, a little bit sad but I almost think of it as the opposite. I feel like man I'm here, I'm not in Assyria and it is, you know, it is important to me but I also feel like you can't chase something that so far doesn't exist, you know what I mean? If I really wanted to be with someone Assyrian I'd have to, that checklist, would have to be completely changed because most Assyrian chicks don't have a lot of those qualities. Even the artsy fartsy ones are, they're just different you know? So you either suck it up and you're like "nope, no matter what I want to end up with someone Assyrian," then you'd end up with someone Assyrian. But I feel like with me because I haven't up to now, there's a reason I haven't, you know? Maybe it's the opposite. I need to accept that no, you know what, that'll be something that's important to me if I have kids, it will be important, like I want them to know Assyria and I want them to...[00:40:17]
CLIENT: Right, that's true. I think that's what I've been thinking about, I think that's why I'm kind of...[00:41:23]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It's funny though, with all this stuff I definitely, one thing that hasn't subsided quite yet, the better I feel I definitely feel more, kind of anxious a little bit. I've been getting more tension headaches and my hands have been, like my hands don't get sweaty. I think I just, you know what I mean? I just feel like there's so much happening and changing and I feel so different. I have these little, like I had one just while we were talking, like these little moments where I suddenly feel super self-aware, almost like I'm outside my body and it's just like...
CLIENT: I think it was while I was talking. I don't know.
CLIENT: Maybe it's just that it feels so mature and so different and I feel so composed (laughs) and like clear, kind of. I guess I have these moments where I feel unnerved or something.
CLIENT: Like yesterday I was with my friend and I was too aware, I was like I'm here and everything's fine, I'm here and everything's fine (laughs). I have these moments where like here we are, I'm standing...
CLIENT: Two hours later and everything is absolutely fine, you know what I mean? Like I can't, it's a little bit unsettling. (pause) I don't know. I wanted to ask you, is there stuff I could read that's like, I want to, I don't know, like is there any psychological, like real psychology stuff, like Jung or something? Is there interesting stuff I should read?
CLIENT: I don't know?
CLIENT: That might somehow pertain or be interesting, I don't know.
CLIENT: Somewhat, yeah. [00:43:50] Nothing off the top of your head you can think of?
CLIENT: Playing?
CLIENT: That book or other things?
CLIENT: Really? Okay.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: That's so funny because that's one of the books that I kind of read for a seminar...
CLIENT: But at the time, it was you know, I was so in a fog that nothing happened. But that's interesting. I'll go back and read it. Cool. [00:44:51] That's, I really enjoy that kind of stuff. I go on YouTube a lot and watch documentaries about like Jung or Freud. I just think it's really fascinating. Cool.
CLIENT: No?
CLIENT: I just like him because he has a whole mystical kind of, I think that's very interesting. That's good to know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Melanie Klein? She wrote about the holocaust right? Did she write about the holocaust?
CLIENT: Oh okay, I'll check her out, I've never read anything by her. That would be interesting. I've never read any female psych, I mean they're all a bunch of old dudes.
CLIENT: I had no idea. Interesting. [00:46:08] (pause)
CLIENT: Who?
CLIENT: Kohut?
CLIENT: Is there a name, like a clinical name for people that are like (laughs) getting healthier, who have these moments of like, I don't know if it's cognitive dissonance, or like hyper...before you're self-aware of shitty things but then to be like very hyper aware because things feel better? You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Actually that makes sense which is why it happens only at specific moments.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: I thought about that as it happened. Is it because we're talking about Assyrian stuff?
CLIENT: Like I don't know.
CLIENT: That's true.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: That's true.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: Thursday.
CLIENT: 12:15. Thanks.
CLIENT: It's all good, it's all good, whew...
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah I did, I did. It was actually a good exercise in not getting to annoyed. It was good. Cost me like 675 dollars so...that could have pissed me off, really annoyed me cause I have little to nothing, between paychecks, but I was like "you know what, that's nice that I can afford to pay for it", you know?
CLIENT: And actually my mechanic was really nice, he's like "just pay me for the labor next week" or something, you know. A lot of mechanics won't let you do that so that was very nice of him, I just payed for the parts. Anyway...but I was lucky though, I mean it completely died so I sensed that something, all the dashboard lights came on and my radio went off so I ran like two red lights. (laughs) I was like "this is not good, this isn't good." So luckily I made it to his shop before it...So...[00:01:11] Car has 90,000 miles on it, it's gonna happen, never had to change the alternator before so....Anyway. So (thumping)....So yeah I've been thinking, remember I was saying I was focused on the money stuff?
CLIENT: So yeah, that, I feel pretty, you know, kind of, overall pretty good about that I guess. But I think that this other thing I was saying about how, why I don't feel more motivated, and then I was like "well, I'm doing all this music," so I am motivated, you know, whatever. But you know, there's still, the only thing is, I do find that, I don't want to say I sleep a lot but I do, but I feel like I do, you know what I mean? [00:02:15] So it's the only thing like, for some reason I don't spring out of bed. And I've talked to a few of my friends about this and they're like "dude, you just don't like the mornings," why is that such a, why does everybody have to be up at six o'clock in the morning, you know? It's like you don't work in a factory, you don't work in an office, so I don't know, there is something about it that bothers me. Maybe it's that my dad was such a morning person, I mean not that my mom isn't, but my dad was very, just you know, like I was up at five in the morning. So I don't know if it's that, I just feel guilty or something...or that I'm just kind of being hard on myself, I don't know but...cause I feel like it is kind of weird that I don't want to get up in the morning and work on music. Do you know what I mean? I don't know if I'm creating a problem that's not really there or maybe I should split the difference. Maybe I should get up a little bit earlier but not feel so bad that I'm trying to get up at like seven in the morning or something when I don't have to. I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:03:21] My friend Dave, he has this kind of similar schedule, there's like, "dude but then you'll work later." He's like "you do stuff, it's not like at night, you're just eating popcorn, that's sometimes when you work." You know? So...you know, it's just an unconventional schedule you know?
CLIENT: It's not really too much because what's happening, especially this week, my sleep pattern got thrown off again. I've been sleeping later, so of course if I wake up at like noon it's cause I slept at four, well that's eight hours of sleep.
CLIENT: You know? So...
CLIENT: No, no way. I couldn't go to bed at eleven if I wanted to anyway. No.
CLIENT: I was going to bed by like one.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:04:20] By one, sometimes midnight, whatever. And then, yeah, of course if I went to bed at that time then, I mean I think it's pretty, like, in that way my body is pretty regulated. If I go to bed around midnight I will, kind of wake up around, I still enjoy the sleeping, but definitely by nine I'm gonna be out of bed, I mean, you know? That's eight, nine hours of sleep (laughs), you know?
CLIENT: No, I don't think it is. You know what it is? I think it's that if you have that kind of unconventional schedule you do, I think it does make you groggier though. I think there's something to be said for people, if you go to bed at eleven and wake up at seven or eight, there's just something, because that's, the sun, I don't know, there's something...biological.
CLIENT: That's right? Yeah. Where as I think if you go to bed at like three in the morning and you wake up at ten or eleven, when you wake up you still feel kind of tired, like, or kind of groggy, something, you know? So, and because of that you might end up sleeping another hour. [00:05:22]
CLIENT: Because you're just kind of feeling lethargic or whatever. So there's some of that, you know? So...
CLIENT: The counter argument would be no, because the times I have gone to bed early and woken up early...
CLIENT: It's not like I'm like "hey!" you know, like, I just wake up and I feel the way I generally feel. So I think it's, I just feel...
CLIENT: If I oversleep.
CLIENT: But if I only sleep like seven hours, seven or eight hours, I just get up. It's, you know, I think it really is a conventional, I think it's a little bit psychological, cause you wake up and you're like "oh, people are already doing things and I'm waking up at eleven." I think it does something, I mean...
CLIENT: Yeah exactly. Like I'll go get a coffee, and I'm like "oh people are already having lunch and I'm getting a coffee," you know? Where as a few of my friends who have that schedule, they just laugh, they're like, you know, like I'll say that and they'll be like "dude, I do that every day, I get like my breakfast at Dunkin at like twelve thirty" you know? [00:06:52] I think it's just a matter of your background, you know, because I haven't' allowed myself, just like in other parts of my life where I've just not allowed myself to be, you know, so that's always...Oh and how am I forgetting this? And that's my, even my dad I think, I don't remember as much but I know for a fact my mom, it really would bother her when I would sleep later.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think my dad too, because they're just not that kind of people. So it would just, I think they didn't get why I was...and even now like my mom sometimes she'll be like "you know, I hope you're not staying up late, it's not good to stay up late." It's very, they're very much more regimented that way, you know? So I think, I think I've felt guilty, you know? Especially in the past where I like didn't have a nine to five job, making money and it just adds to the guilt you know?
CLIENT: Right, right, right. I think I'm getting to the place where, I'm like I don't know if it is better for me but I know it's not so bad. I think that's splitting the difference, you know?
CLIENT: Would it be better to go to bed at like twelve instead of four? Yeah, I mean probably, you know? But at the same time, so what, in some ways. I mean as long as I'm sleeping. [00:08:16] As long as I'm not up at like four in the morning having panic attacks and you know? In other words as long as I'm not staying up because of a problem which I'm not, you know, I like to read, I like to, I kind of get into a zone, you know?
CLIENT: I do a lot of e-mailing at those hours, like I kind of get organized at those hours, I just, I don't know, it's just peaceful, you know, it's just quiet and I kind of enjoy that, you know? But, yeah.
CLIENT: Like in the past, where was, yeah, in the past where was because I'm dreading the morning or the next day so I'm just gonna stay up, you know? But it's not like that now because I usually look forward to that. I have a great schedule and people leave me alone, so yeah.
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: That's why I'm bringing it up. Yeah, like I feel like I'm kind of making, possibly making, because of...
CLIENT: Still feeling kind of like maybe I'm being lazy or maybe I'm...you know?
CLIENT: No, no, no. [00:09:39]
CLIENT: No, no. Well the tired the whole day, that used to happen even if I woke up early and I think that is related to other things. I think that's related to if I've been drinking more than usual that week, you know what I mean? If I haven't been exercising...I mean, in the past I've been told that I've like very mild sleep apnea.
CLIENT: I don't' know if there's some nights that acts up or something, I don't know. But, yeah. I think what it is, is I think intellectually, like even though now I'm like "oh yeah, right now I'm working on my music so I don't feel that bad." I think it's like anything else. Like right now I know that up here, but I don't completely feel it yet, you now what I mean? I'm still like, ah...you know what I mean? So...(pause)
CLIENT: Lately I've been doing more pb & j.
CLIENT: That's better.
CLIENT: On oat bread, natural peanut butter, it's not bad. Milk so you get a little...
CLIENT: No, I agree.
CLIENT: Right, right. It's not just parents...most people aren't, right?
CLIENT: So it's weird....
CLIENT: You know, so if you say someone (ph), like "oh that must be nice," you know what I mean? Like there's this thing of like, you know, I mean even working from home which a lot of people do now, it's like "oh that must be nice." Well, yeah it is nice but don't make it sound like I'm, you know, partying all day or something, I mean I've worked hard and I've got this job and so "go fuck yourself." You know what I mean? There's such a thing in this country if you're not up at fucking the crack of dawn working to the nub that somehow you're getting off easy or something, like I just hate that, you know? [00:12:43] Like in Europe, that's one thing I loved, I didn't even know what the fuck these people, there were all these people everywhere and it is kind of odd coming from here but, I loved it. I was like, I don't know, there's somehow people in cafe, and it's not the Square, I mean here it makes sense but, like, you know, outside of those city center's there were just people, you know? And no one cares, like people are just out living their lives and I don't know...So I'm not trying to generalize or make it like a black and white, it's you know, but...I do think I carry a lot of, it's not a very immigrant type thing, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: You're supposed to constantly be thinking about how to make more money, you know? I mean, I don't know if I told you but recently, like especially with my uncle, not my blood uncle, but my aunt who passed away, her husband. Nice guy, become much more of a softie over the years and all that, but man he's become so, like every thing is about money. He'll just say it. He'll be like "yes, oh you have a good job, good for you, good this country is about money." Like he's become very (laughs), it's kind of cute, like he's not being an asshole about it, and at least he's being honest, you know?
CLIENT: But that's their thinking, you know, they all, I think at the end of the day, they're like "look, why are you in this country?" We're here just to fucking make money. This is not, and they're right. In that way they're right. It's not a country really for artists, I mean, not anymore really, like it's just a country where you fucking try to bank as much as you can (laughs). [00:14:10] I can see that point of view but it's very extreme, you know? Or it's, I mean, they don't have this capacity (ph), well that's how I feel, but Tricia doesn't so who cares? Good for her, you know? They don't have that understanding, so like you're, Tricia's a chump, she clearly doesn't understand what this country's about.
CLIENT: There can't be other people doing other things, yeah. They don't understand that.
CLIENT: I think like, for example, they, I think it was kind of like the thing with the Kickstarter (ph), my mom initially just didn't understand, and I'm like why would people just give money, like why? You know what I mean? She, it's not that she doesn't believe in music, her ideas are you have music and you become like a pop star and people pay you lots of money to give concerts. There isn't, for them there isn't this...or like how's it possible that people put up choruses on YouTube and they just tell you how to do things, like, you know what I mean? [00:15:14]
CLIENT: That's all new to them, they don't understand like why would people go out of their way, they don't understand that which is sad, you know? But it's like it's very genuine, they just don't get it (laughs). Like why would Tricia do a fifteen part thing on YouTube about anxiety? And what, but she's a doctor, so she's getting paid or...?
CLIENT: You know, there's no like sense of, no Tricia is trying to help, let's say people that can't come to see her, you know? They don't get that.
CLIENT: She never worded it like that
CLIENT: But, but yeah. That was a basic principal, like yeah, how is this working, so that people that don't even know you are just giving you money? Like, what? She didn't understand, I mean she eventually got it and even she was like "wow this..." She thought Kickstarter was like my website, like that I made it, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I was like, I showed her all these other projects, she was like "what?" She was blown away, you know? [00:16:29]
CLIENT: Yeah and some of that might not so much be, I mean I think I'd feel that way too if I was seventy. I mean things have changed so much that I think some of it just is a major... I mean even between me and someone who's twenty...
CLIENT: Right, I mean, tech....
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah. Technology is just, it's gotten ridiculous, you know? So some of it is that but I think some of it definitely is like, because I think an American person that age would be like "oh how clever," you know what I mean? There wouldn't be that like, "why are they giving you money," you know what I mean? They'd just be like "oh, how strange there's this awesome new technology," you know, I think that would be a typical American response, whereas for them it's not just a technology but....
CLIENT: Culturally this altruistic, what people are just coming together to...because they want to help each other? It's, you know. [00:17:35] Which is awful for me but I can under...you know? If you come from, Stalinist, from living under Stalin, that's, I'd feel that way too, you know? People are snitching on each other, people are, you know, everyone's' paranoid, people you know...
CLIENT: No
CLIENT: Yeah. I was watching some documentaries actually on Stalin, like I'm fascinated by all that shit and even, like I was, that's...I was watching, I was like "that is crazy, these people that I know, my family, lived there." I was like "how is this the same world?" you know what I mean? Like how are they this...
CLIENT: It doesn't make any fucking sense how that's possible that my mom who's not that old, remembers like German P.O.W.'s, she remembers people getting dragged off in the middle of the night, like that's, I don't comprehend that, you know? [00:18:38] So I think in that way they can't comprehend the present in a way, I guess, you know? It doesn't excuse how hard it was for me but...(pause) [00:19:38]
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: Yeah. Which is very helpful because it makes me feel more like, you know, it kind of extricates me more, like there's more of a...
CLIENT: It doesn't feel so lonely anymore though, in a way. It feels alone but not lonely, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: And you couldn't make sense of that because a lot of people are alone, right, a lot of people lose their parents, they're on their own, they're... or they have their family but they're estranged or...like I couldn't wrap my head around that, you know what I mean? And also because mine isn't even that bad. Like if I can feel better about just myself then I don't even have that kind of family, I can be with my family, I can, you know, there are people that care, you know what I mean? It's just more this stuff that I've been trying to work out, you know what I mean? Like it's...
CLIENT: I just mean that I don't feel so, it's not like I'm choking on their shit, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Now I can be like "oh you know what, this..."
CLIENT: Yeah it's like, on a gut level, like I'm being more like, you now this really a shitty, it's been hard, but just look at how surreal I mean, no wonder, right, it's just...[00:21:08] It's like we're a universe apart so, then it makes it like, okay as much as things hurt or...it wasn't intentional. It doesn't make it any better and it doesn't excuse it but it helps.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what it is.
CLIENT: And it reminds me that it wasn't like they were just taking me and saying "how can we fuck him?" They did it to everybody. They would make comments about people, that's just the way they are, you know? So they'd do it to each other. My aunt does my grandmother, she looks old, but she's old, she's 89. Yeah so it just helps me to bring it back down to earth so it's not some kind of mythic, they're fucking out to get me or some shit, or I'm doomed or it's all about me or it's not. They do this and they're doing it to themselves.[00:22:11] If you're doing this to other people, if you're like "oh look at Tricia's shoes" or whatever, who knows what you're saying to yourself, you know what I mean? Especially for my mom, like on the women's side, my uncle maybe not so much but if they're constantly critiquing other women or other people than who knows what they're saying...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So in that way, now I can just do, I can focus on my work, you know, then it becomes more like what a lot of people have which is kind of a shitty past that they carry around with them but it's not the dominating clusterfuck in their life.
CLIENT: Okay no problem. Sorry I was late.
CLIENT: Three times?
CLIENT: 10:40?
CLIENT: Right, got it.
CLIENT: That's totally fine. So 10:40 tomorrow?
CLIENT: I'll put that in my phone. Thanks a lot Tricia.
CLIENT: I had to park a little far away. Ah, man. Lately it's a little crowded around here. I usually get really lucky with parking, bastards.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know that's what they say. (Pause) So, (Pause) yesterday I had a good practice. Our drummer didn't come and practice because he's sick. At first I did that thing where I'm like; Oh, that's yeah, that's better. I don't want to You know what I mean? But then we did. I was like; you know what? Let's just the three of us We can work on parts and it was great. [00:00:59] Worked on a I had this song that I hadn't played for them, whatever, and we the three of us did it and it came out really nice, and worked on some harmonies and more specific kind of (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, ranging, right because it's not as loud. So it was nice. I'm glad. That was good. (Pause) But I noticed, maybe it is because of the holidays, but I noticed that I'm drinking a lot more. There's always something. I don't drink at home. So, and I was like, maybe that's what I've been sleeping a little more wacky too. Alcohol just throws you off. We had the holiday party two nights ago.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) We had Sam Adams and their beer is just fucking awful. [00:02:03] But it was a lot of drinking. Yeah, I've just been hanging out more with friends and stuff. I don't know. So, yeah, it's the holidays. It's hard not to.
CLIENT: Like almost every night.
CLIENT: Well, I can drink. Well actually no, I shouldn't say that. Last night, actually no What am I saying? Last night, the guys were drinking at practice, and I didn't. I had the medium coffee with me, and then I had two after. So that's not But at the holiday party, it was shitty beer, and probably had at least six. Normally, I mean, I can put back the drinks. If there's a nice cold beer I like light beer. If there's something cold, and not disgusting, then I can put them back. [00:03:06] But that's the thing though. Lately I'm finding out whatever, I'm betting older-But lately, I'm finding that even when I don't have six. (Laughing) If I have two or three, then depending on how I feel, then it's just kind of like, yeah. Not really -
CLIENT: Yeah, like I'm just not enjoying Like it's just not going down as easy. (Pause) So, -
CLIENT: No. Oh, recently? Yeah, I don't think I've had quite that many. Even when I go out lately, I don't think I have six. I think now it's like four. Is it?
CLIENT: Yeah, four or five. It depends on where I am and what I'm drinking. [00:04:07] If I'm somewhere where I'm comfortable, it's like a place I hang out, so I For example, there's a bar in the Square. I just know they have really cold beer cans and I love that. I don't know why. It's one of my favorites. It's just like soda pop. They're ice cold, and they're you know. So I just get more you know, it's that environment and so, I can put them back. But otherwise, I probably don't probably not six, like four maybe.
CLIENT: No, no, no, it used to be. In the past, yeah definitely, I'd be out and I'd be drinking No, what's happening now is (Pause) it's probably like two or three times a week, yeah and then, other times if I'm out maybe one or two. [00:05:03] But it's only lately I realize; whoa, it's been pretty much every night for like the last week or two. Because Dave and I if we work in the studio, we'll have maybe two while we're working. So (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, one semester (ph)? (Laughing) yeah, yeah, yeah, I know what you mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I haven't been and the other thing is all my friends drink, and they can all put them back the way I We're all similar that way, so it's But, I've not been going out as much. Yeah, so It'd be like maybe once, or twice and then maybe if I hang out with my friends Donnie and Lila at their house, maybe once a week or whatever, or every other week, then we could put it back. [00:06:10]
CLIENT: Can make it hard why?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah, no. For me, it's impossible. I'm just not Well, and the thing is I enjoy it. Once I'm in the spirit of things, I enjoy it. But yeah, I just Just because lately, I've just been thinking about more like what am I eating and sleeping and So, it can't be helping that -
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah, plus there's someone like me where if I'm out and drinking, I usually don't drink water. And then the next day, I think to drink water, but I probably don't drink enough at all. [00:07:07] So it's like that -
CLIENT: No, that night, I will come home and have some water, but it's probably not enough. I'll just have a bottle, and I'll be sipping from it, but yeah, yeah. And then usually what will happen is, I'll either wake up at night, or really early in the morning, and then just chug now because I'm feeling crappy. So, yeah, anyway. (Pause)
CLIENT: Not much. (yawning)
CLIENT: Yeah, cigarettes and coffee. And even when he did, he didn't really I mean, he'd have whisky or but it'd be like one. I don't know. It's not really -
CLIENT: No, no, no never.
CLIENT: Never.
CLIENT: No. No, no, no. (Pause) No, I mean, I haven't and that's the thing, I don't I don't drink at home. I don't crave it. I mean, I do like anybody else once in a while might like a nice cold beer. But, it's not often. Normally it's just a social it's just what people are doing. You're just -
CLIENT: I don't like wine because wine makes me sleepy and pensive. (chuckles) I can drink whisky, but to me whisky is like a it's like a treat, because I can't I can't do a lot of whisky. So, sometimes, if I'm really feeling in the mood, and I'm I've had a big dinner, and I'm all good, whatever. I'd like one whisky on the rocks, just to enjoy it, and then I'll just go right to the Buds.[00:09:13] But no, shots or whatever, I don't know mixed drinks, I don't do any of that.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, It's hasn't been bothering me. It's doesn't not like it used to. In the past I was drinking too much. I just noticed that this past week because my (Overlapping Voices) sleep has been a little -
CLIENT: I was like; Oh, I wonder if it's just plus I'm taking medication and shit. You know what I mean. [00:10:11] Normally, I don't care so much about that, but if it's every night, somehow it's kind of like it's a bit much. (Long Pause)
CLIENT: Oh yeah always.
CLIENT: Although there are times where I'll just come home and go to bed. [00:11:14] I won't stay up. Yeah, yeah, I'll get home like at For example, I'll go to Donnie and Lila's, we go to their house early, so I'm usually home by ten or something, but I'm pretty buzzed. So those nights usually, I'm asleep by midnight because I'll just get in bed-as I'm watching a little TV I'm out. But, yeah, other times, Like last night, I had two so when I got home, I was up. I wasn't It doesn't really make me sleep early a lot of times. (Pause) I don't know (Pause)
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Only if I'm exhausted or sick. (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, since I've been older, yeah. (inaudible at [00:12:19]) And that does run in my family.
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Not my mom and dad, but other people in my family. Yeah, like a few of my cousins, my aunt, (Pause) -
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah, absolutely. This That makes I think it's just nature. There's just something about it, if you just sleep a little bit earlier.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah, right, right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. People knew something, right, back in the day, sunset, time to go to bed. So But yeah it's just I don't know. I've never been able to. (Pause)
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah, yeah, overall it's not a big deal. I think it's just I think it's something I need to watch. Because sometimes, then it slides into a little bit excessive. I mean, I don't want to go to bed at four in the morning. I don't care how unconventional my You know what I mean? There might be some times where if I'm finishing a project, or if I'm in the middle of writing that's different. But overall, there's no fucking reason to be up after like two, one-thirty, two, there's no reason to be up past that. [00:14:04] So that's the only issue is that sometimes it becomes it kind of pushes the boundary a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's why I was thinking about it, because lately that's what's been happening. Maybe it is the drinking. I don't know what it is. But or maybe it's just gotten cold, or I'm just getting more like -(Pause) It is that Sometimes I say is like that cozy feeling. It's all cold outside, and you're like cozy. It's like I enjoy it. It's like I enjoy it's peaceful and quiet and I'm watching a movie. It's nice. But (Laughing) lots of things are nice; it doesn't mean you should be doing them every night. (Pause) [00:14:55]
CLIENT: Right, right, right, although, (inaudible at [00:15:45]) my parents were pretty I went to be like at eight, or something (Overlapping Voices) like that.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But, (Pause) yeah, there were periods of time when I was just alone. (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true. (Pause)
CLIENT: Oh, no, no Well even yeah, yeah. The thing is when I do go to bed Let's say I go to bed at midnight or one. It's not I still have a radio on or something.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah. I don't just It's not all silent and I'm just going to sleep. No.
CLIENT: Yep. [00:16:51]
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: I'm restless, I can't just (Pause) I don't know. Probably nothing happens. I think at this point I probably could just lay there until I fall asleep, but it's just a habit. I like listening to a podcast or something. Because that way I don't have to sit there and be like; Okay, I want to fall asleep. I find that it I don't think. So next thing I know, I'm asleep. (Laughing) It kind of works out. Whereas, I don't know, just laying there, waiting to fall Some of it is also I just know myself. Some people can just fucking put their head anywhere and they are out. I'm not like that. I don't sleep on buses, planes, trains, whatever. I'm just up. I can't just suddenly be out. [00:17:47] And the same with sleeping, I can't just lay there and be like; Okay, give me five minutes and I'll be asleep. It doesn't work like that. I don't think it'd be that bad. I probably just would fall asleep, but I don't know. It's just a habit. (Pause) I mean, I think One think I will say though is that I think it'd be easier now with the cat. Because she's so curled up next to me that I think maybe it would (Laughing) be like It kind of gives my mind because I'm usually just playing with her ear or there's something there, so I don't have to maybe think as much. I don't know (Pause) [00:18:38]
CLIENT: It's usually not a problem unless I'm somehow uncomfortable. But yeah, it's usually not a problem.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: No, no, that'd be weird. No, yeah, actually, that's a good point. How do I do it then? I have I mean, out of etiquette, I have to. I'm not going to put on a (Laughing) podcast with a chick laying there, but that's actually a good point. Yeah. Now it's usually, especially if I like the person it's very nice. It's I just fall asleep.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's totally soothing.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, in some ways she's Maybe that's why I also stay up sometimes. Because it's so I love it! Do you know what I mean? I'm just like; this is crazy! I'm playing with her ears. I put my hand on her face. She's ridiculous, you know. So it is kind of like It's awesome. I just enjoy that. But (Pause) yeah, that's funny though. Yeah, with a woman, it's usually not an issue. (Pause) Although, the one difference though of course, is usually nine out of ten times, if there's a woman, that means we had sex. So, you definitely sleep (Laughing) a lot better. It's a lot of physical you know. So in some ways it feels really nice to just drift right off to sleep. [00:20:47] It's a little bit (Pause) but even still, there's just something nice. That's actually funny. I never really thought about that. Because I am more a lot of guys aren't cuddly or whatever the word is. But I'm not like that. I not that I want to be attached all night, but as I'm falling asleep, I do like to you know.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's kind of weird. That creeps me out a little bit though because -
CLIENT: Well it's because Remember I was saying when I was little I'd play with my mom's hair? Because I kind of do the same, I mean I don't play with but I will a little bit. I just women have cool hair. There's just something soothing about that tactile (Pause) [00:21:48] But yeah, I like to be a and then what usually what ends up happening is when I'm feeling really (Pause) like; alright, I'm ready to fall asleep, or whatever, then I'll kind of will turn around or whatever. (Laughing) (Pause)
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah, it is. Yeah it kind of is, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) No. I had a teddy bear, I think for a while, a brown teddy bear.
CLIENT: I don't really I mean, I remember the teddy bear, so I guess it must have been important, but it didn't last too long, I think. [00:22:57] (Pause) No, I never had anything like that.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, that's probably what it was because I definitely was like that, and I am even now. Some of my guy friends joke that I'm the only that some of my guy friends joke that (Pause) when we get together, we'll hug, and do like a bro hug or whatever (Laughing), and some of them will joke that I'm the reason they do that. [00:23:53] They don't do that with their other guy So yeah, I'm just yeah, I'm touchy feely, definitely. I've actually kind of worked on not being so touchy feely, but (Pause) but I am.
CLIENT: I don't think it No it's not sappy and negative, but I have noticed that it's not it's kind of like being nice all the time. In the sense that (Pause) you do have to be aware because some people don't get that. So you don't want to waste your (Pause) genuineness. You know what I mean? So I've been a little bit more (Pause) but no, I still do people I care about. I don't care. But but yeah, I am, definitely. [00:24:55](Pause) I mean, look my grandmother now when I see her, a lot of times I don't talk to her. I just sit next to her and I stroke her hair and I just I rub her back or whatever. (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah no, overall, yeah. (Pause)
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) I was just thinking that, yeah, because I have thought about that in the past. Why am I so comfortable with If I have so many not so many issues, but if I'm so hard on myself or so this, or anxious; why is that like, not only not an issue, it's so far so good, whatever. [00:26:05] But yeah, maybe that's what it's just the physical there's something, you know. (Pause)
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) I think it's yeah, I think it's a very alive feeling. It's like that's when we're animals. You know what I mean? We don't have to say anything. We don't it's just you're communication something so (Pause) genuine and so kind of (Pause) from your gut, so visceral. So yeah, maybe that's what it is. It's like it's just [00:26:48] (Pause) And, it's a way not to think. When you have that kind of (Pause) it shuts your mind off for a while. [00:27:04](Pause) [00:28:22] Yeah, that's interesting. It's all about the (Pause) It's weird to be to be open to touching, but then be a closed off person. It's kind of a weird combo. (Pause)
CLIENT: Right
CLIENT: There's more room for saying the wrong thing, or feeling like you're misunderstood, or something like that, or [00:29:29) (Pause)
CLIENT: Or just awkwardness or whatever. (Pause)
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) h yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) What? Oh, funny. Yeah. (Pause) [00:31:10]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Even though I was just thinking but even though that's weird because I the other paradox is but then I have all these kind of slightly psychosomatic, bodily (Laughing)-So that's that's funny, that's strange. I was actually just thinking about I'm like; alright, I'm going to see Kelly tonight. (Pause) It probably will go nice, whatever, and we'll have sex or whatever, but and yet in this moment, or yesterday, today, whatever, I feel kind of yucky. [00:32:15] You know, I just I feel a little(Pause) not hypochondriacal or whatever, but I do feel a little I am a little bit focused on bodily sensations. So that's kind of weird too. You know? It's like -
CLIENT: I guess that's true, yeah. [00:33:04]
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah, that's true actually. Right, that's true. (Pause)
CLIENT: Right, right, that's true. [00:34:02] (Pause) But that's the funny thing. I don't drink at home. (Pause) So it's I mean, I think it's more that I'm maybe socializing a little bit more. And that's part of it too, like I'm just maybe I want to be out with people, kind of change my mood or change you know. So that's just part yeah. But yeah, maybe it's just part of the all the same thing.
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah, over I think that part is healthy. I think maybe it's just the while I'm out, it's just kind of like; Oh, this is a that nice added distraction, or whatever. [00:35:03] (Pause) [00:36:04] But, yeah, I must be feeling some kind of anxiety a little, because I do this past week, I've been having that feeling again of like remember I said I feel like I can't breathe, like I'm not breathing right, or something? I've been feeling that way like all week. It's like one of my least I hate that feeling. It's like I'm just like; why what's happening here? I'm obviously breathing, but like I'm not getting enough air, or something. (Pause)
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: I was just thinking about that. I hate that feeling. (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I've had it like all yeah, yesterday, today. So, then I just end up feeling yucky. I just feel like maybe it's just maybe I'm like so out of shape, or maybe I'm just it turns into something psychosomatic kind of stuff.
CLIENT: No, I didn't maybe I didn't feel it as much in here. Yeah, but see the thing is, it happens so often, I've I think I don't even bring it up as much because it's such it's like part of me. [00:39:10] But yeah, it happens often.
CLIENT: Yeah. Is it true? I don't know. I just feel like I'm not breathing right. You know? (Pause) Which is the only thing when I'm sleeping with a woman. That's the only thing that does make me uncomfortable. Because very sometime para not paranoid, self-conscious. I'll be like; am I breathing to loud? You know? Because I'll I'm not sometimes I'll breathe with my mouth open a little bit, and I hate that but sometimes I just feel more comfortable like that. And -
CLIENT: Just I don't know. If I see people doing it I kind of I just don't like it to be a habit. You know? To just to be like breathe through your just have your mouth open, breathe it's a little weird. [00:40:08] So yeah, that's the only thing that sometimes makes me very uncomfortable for a little while. (inaudible at [00:40:15] I'll be like I'm like; am I breathing too loud? Like, she like she's probably like what the fuck is this guy breathing (Laughing) so loud for? Or yeah, I don't know. It's just yeah, that'll bother me sometimes. Especially if I'm really cuddled, so it's warmer, and I don't do very well with heat. So, I'll be trying to breathe through my nose, but I'll just be feeling hot and kind of but then I'll be like; no I bet if you breathe through your mouth it's going to be loud. I don't know that's one weird thing I have. And then of course, then it makes me start thinking. Why am I what why do I have this weird issue with breathing? What the fuck is this?
CLIENT: Oh, I guess I never (Laughing) thought of it that way. That's true. Yeah, I'm fucking breathing. Yeah, right. [00:41:17] That's -
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I see what you're saying. I never thought of it that way. It's like yeah, what how could you be hard on yourself for breathing? I think it's yeah, it's just what I do, is I focus on the physical that somehow actually no shit, that's crazy, that I'm somehow (Laughing) I feel like I'm even doing that wrong. [00:42:06] You know? It's that thing of like I'm not even breathing the way other people breathe. It's like I'm breathing weird or something. That's crazy, whoa. (Pause) Yeah, that's fucked up. And you know what, that maybe that's I'm I mean, normally what I think is happening is because a lot of people with anxiety, don't know that they're kind of hyperventilating.
CLIENT: Because I think what's happening is because I'm trying to breathe more normally, I'm fucking up my breathing.
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Yeah and it does, especially when I'm with a woman. I feel like I'm holding my breath a little bit. I'm trying to breathe a certain way and the more I do that, of course, I feel like I can't breathe. (Laughing) You know what I mean? [00:43:05]
CLIENT: (Overlapping Voices) Exactly
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay, I think I got to bring you a check on Monday. I'm sorry.
CLIENT: So, what time Monday?
CLIENT: Ten o'clock (Overlapping Voices) Monday.
CLIENT: Okay, cool.
CLIENT: Right, okay, cool. See you Monday at ten.
CLIENT: This girl's so nice. I mean, they're all nice. But I don't know where she's from or whatever. I got a part. I walked into the coffee shop (ph) and my coffee was ready. She's been doing that like the last three or four times. It's very sweet. It's really nice.
CLIENT: I think that's what's happening is we're all just like, "Hey, at least she's here." We've lost other people so young. She's 89, 90 years old. I mean, we all, we're all going to go at some point. How nice to be old, surrounded by your family. You know? So...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: (SIGH) (PAUSE) I just thought of something though.
CLIENT: It's kind of... No, it's not cool but it's... I don't know what the word, adjective is but, you know, I'm seeing someone now who I really, really like and someone is my family is kind of going downhill, which is what was happening when I saw Samantha. Right? So it's... I take small... It's a bit of a comfort to know that it's such a world of difference now.
CLIENT: The other thing that happened yesterday that I thought was really interesting... I didn't know what to make of it. But we all started talking about memories. We took a little stroll down memory lane. I thought that was very sweet... It also kind of bothered... It didn't bother... I was like, "Wow. We're talking as if..." I don't know. I didn't know what to make of it. Something was different this time about it. Like my mom talked about how they went to Oregon. My mom and dad went to Oregon with my aunt and uncle, my aunt who died. You know? I just... I kind of cringed because she talked about my aunt and she told my cousin, "You know, you were in your mom's belly. She was pregnant with you." So she's like, "It was as if you came too with us." She talked so openly about my aunt. I was like, "Are the... Is that okay?"
CLIENT: And then I was like, "No, I think that's kind of cool." I think my mom's just like... Why? I don't know what to make... I don't know. I felt very uncomfortable because my uncle was there. You know? They're there.
CLIENT: But then I thought, "You know, no. I think she's like..." We're not going to forget her. We're not going to act like she didn't exist because we went through this trauma. I mean, there were these wonderful... I don't know. I didn't know what to make of it.
CLIENT: Maybe it's just me. I thought maybe it's just me. I'm uncomfortable because it was so awful. I don't know how to... Like...
CLIENT: Yeah. I was like, "Wow. Like that's ballsy." You know? I don't know. Like I was like, "Holy shit." You know? That was a...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, if it's just me and my cousin, I will.
CLIENT: But I just have a way of doing it... I don't know. I'm very kind of mellow about it.
CLIENT: But, you know, when it's a group of people, I always feel like that's a little bit... You know? But... I don't know. I give my mom credit. I don't think anybody... I think they were actually touched, I think. You know? You know? My uncle's very... He's the one I was telling you, now he's a softie. You know, he gets immediately teary eyed if... You know? So maybe it's nice that she talked about it and my cousin seemed fine that she talked about it. But I was just like, "Wow. What are we doing here?" Maybe it's just so different. I thought something seemed different. You know?
CLIENT: No, it wasn't. No, no, no. She's... She's definitely shown a different side to her with some of this stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah. My aunt and my dad, we don't really talk about. My aunt's husband who died and my grandfather, you know, we can talk about that. But for some reason, my dad, they just...
CLIENT: It's too sad. It's hard to talk about.
CLIENT: For me, at least. Yeah. It's hard to talk about. (PAUSE) I don't know. (PAUSE) Or just, you know, it's my own insecurity or I just don't want to talk about anything related to death. I'm sure it's not... You know, it's just my own whatever. Yeah. Because I enjoyed... Yesterday, I enjoyed listening and talking about it. You know? [00:14:03]
CLIENT: So...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Because she was the girl and she was for a long time the only girl and she was feisty. You know? So... I think that it is, is like for me... I don't know. Maybe my cousin's stronger than me in that way. I have so much sadness, I think, about my dad that it's just still hard. You know? Like, I feel good when other people talk about him but it makes me sad. You know? Like... Not in a way like, "Why did you bring it up?" I just, you know, it's hard. You know, my friends who had the diner... People bring him up. "You know, your dad was really a great guy." Whatever. It's just like, "Ugh." It's so nice to hear but it's so hard. You know? [00:16:05]
CLIENT: I think so.
CLIENT: It's just so deep, I think, that it's just like... Yeah. It's just very difficult. I think with my uncle Randy... We all loved him but, you know, he was more... You know, he was a drinker. He was a little bit more aloof. He didn't treat my aunt the best. Remember, I was saying... We all loved him.
CLIENT: In me? [00:18:11]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, so shame in that way.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. I was wondering why shame. Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, yeah. Of course. It's kind of... Yeah, what are you going to do? Break down every... Yeah, it's hard. It's... I think, you know, we're men and that's hard. You know? I think, on their end, there might also... My blood uncle, not so much, but, you know, my older uncle, you know, he used to be kind of a hard ass and not such a fun guy and, you know, of all the three of them, it was really my other uncle who passed away and my dad who were buddies. You know? [00:19:15]
CLIENT: You know, they would have fun. They... You know? This uncle was a little bit more of a hard ass and sometimes difficult. So I think he definitely felt some guilt maybe or some...
CLIENT: You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
CLIENT: No, I was just in San Diego for the day.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was only like 18, 19, at the time. Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Sunday. Which doesn't help with my hatred of Sundays. [00:22:03]
CLIENT: Sundays... Was it November 6th or October 6th? It was the 6th of October or November. Yeah.
CLIENT: No. He just died suddenly.
CLIENT: I mean, he had this... He had hurt his arm. He wasn't working. There was a lot of stress.
CLIENT: His brother was way younger. His brother was 48. You know... Half brother.
CLIENT: Half brother, yeah. And, you know, that guy was... That guy. My uncle was a big dude and he was a historical... His stress levels were... That's a very different situation and also there were some rumors that he was killed or... I don't know. He died young.
CLIENT: Yeah. Either way, he died young. So...
CLIENT: No, no, no.
CLIENT: No way.
CLIENT: Of course.
CLIENT: Absolutely. You're absolutely... I mean, yeah, I think there's definitely something... It was one of those freak... Or it could have happened but he could have lived.
CLIENT: It was just one of those where I think unfortunately, you know, it's just a freak... I think that's why he had all those panic attacks. It's just such a freak thing that it's as if there's like nothing you can do. So...
CLIENT: He rushed over. I think he was either in the ambulance or he got...
CLIENT: No, no, no. (inaudible at 00:25:41)
CLIENT: Yeah. He was best friends with their dad. That's why they were so close.
CLIENT: No, no, no. They were at their house. These three couples would get together and they'd have like dinners. They'd have a nice time. You know? So maybe like once a week or every other week they'd get together. They had dinner and that was it. He just kind of slumped over. [00:26:07]
CLIENT: That's it.
CLIENT: As far as I know, no.
CLIENT: I mean, who knows what my mom's telling. I couldn't ask them specifically. I'm assuming he must have felt something but, yeah, it wasn't some...
CLIENT: It wasn't some prolonged kind of thing. Or even if it was, it was very, very quick, very quickly.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: After what?
CLIENT: Yeah, of course, yeah, yeah, yeah and the ambulance, all that. [00:27:03]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Some of her friends know... I mean, it's... We have a relationship. You know what I mean? So, on the one hand, it's good that I get that now. Yeah. This is great. But I was like, "Wow, that's so weird." Even now, the girl is sending me a heart, roses. You know? Like what? (LAUGHTER) But I feel like this dread or this like...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Oh, I didn't get a phone call.
CLIENT: No, I just got... We got home. I dropped everybody off. It was me and my cousin Bobby, my... We got to my house and all the lights were on and I saw my relatives cars. I kind of got excited. I was like, "Oh, they're hanging out." Then the minute I got...
CLIENT: No, no, no. I mean, the wake was private.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was almost more traumatic seeing the different people's reaction. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I know. [00:44:57]
CLIENT: I know. It's weird.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it did feel like that a little bit. It felt like that. It's weird. I don't know.
CLIENT: I know.
CLIENT: His only child.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: The thing is she had like her girlfriends like... She's the wife so there's some...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: 12:50?
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks.
CLIENT: Have a good one.
CLIENT: Jesus, I got here, like, at 12:25.
CLIENT: Which is just crazy. I could I had to park -
CLIENT: I had to park way up almost to the hospital.
CLIENT: Sad. Anyway. That's okay. It was good to get some air. I have a cold. (pause) Man. (pause) I'm doing pretty good.
CLIENT: But now that I don't, it just makes it a lot easier. It's like, all right, well, it's not so bad. I'm just doing my thing. (pause) So... [00:02:07]
CLIENT: Yeah, like I, yeah, I've never, I've never liked having a cold. It's always it's a pet peeve. I mean for everybody, it's a pet peeve, but just...
CLIENT: I think it was that. Either that or "Working Class Hero." I don't know. Those are two great songs, but it was one of them. I think it was "Mother." That would be weird if it was, but it wasn't a bad dream or anything. I was just like, yeah, that's what it is. (laughing)
CLIENT: It was some weird version, I don't know. Like drum machines.
CLIENT: Yeah. People were having trouble recognizing it and, yeah. [00:07:03]
CLIENT: I don't know if it's because I mean, he died it was his anniversary a few weeks ago when he was shot, so I remember I posted something on Facebook. And I watched some videos when he but (pause) -
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. Either one, yeah. Yeah, right.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, and I've also been thinking a lot about my grandmother. Yeah, I think there's a lot of maternal stuff, yeah. Yeah. And it's good that it was a good recognition because yeah. [00:08:05]
CLIENT: No. No, I got to say, I was thinking about this. Not to be morbid, but a lot of people, their parents pass on, and they don't have closure or something or if they had issues in the past but they live far away, or you know what I mean? There's a lot of that. I feel like God forbid whatever, I can be kind of proud that there's some semblance of I made a connection. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's cool. Just like they're doing with their mom, you know what I mean. They're really taken care of her, and because I really see the change in my mom. Yesterday, she went to a little women's there's an Army in Red Cross. It's the Army and Belief Society. My mom used to be very active in that, so her girlfriends can get her to come back, and so she went to some little dinner and whatever event thing (inaudible at 9:21), so things like that, it's good. So she's been doing more of that. So yeah, she just seems like she's overall trying to have a better attitude, and you know. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. Right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: I'm sorry, Tricia. That's so gross.
CLIENT: Sorry.
CLIENT: Because I hate when people blow their nose or whatever. [00:11:01]
CLIENT: Oh, it's nasty. I think that's the other thing. I'm such a I'm not a germaphobe, but I do get annoyed if people are out in public wheezing and cough like, you're at Starbucks and it's like so maybe it's all the years when I wasn't driving and I was on the tea. And I'd had forgotten how it's a Petri dish of fucking nastiness, and people are rude, and they fucking just sneeze on you and shit. It's disgusting.
CLIENT: No, that there's a trend of either it's climate change or there's something going on where there's more little infections and little bugs and not dangerous stuff, but that more and more or no, I guess the doctor said more and more people are getting these things and then not, like, they won't really go away. It kind of goes away and then it comes back a week later, and I don't know, but anyway. But yeah, I know, I just, I've always been a little bit annoyed by either stay home or just you've got to be really polite. You've got to cover your fucking mouth. I don't know. You know, just shit like that, it's annoying. [00:13:10]
CLIENT: It's both.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's both.
CLIENT: It's both.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's both, yeah. I'm disgusted by all that shit. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I'm like we're, my whole family's very clean. Everything's and I like that. I'm like bathrooms, kitchens, that shit has to be gah. So yeah, part of it's just the actual stuff, but yeah, part of it's just I just it amazes me when people I mean it amazes me in general that people are generally not more polite, but it when you're fucking sick, it's just like (pause) But... (pause from 14:25 to 15:05)
CLIENT: About?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yep.
CLIENT: That's like -
CLIENT: (Overlapping voices).
CLIENT: I know, exactly. Exactly, exactly, exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's all health. It's all about health.
CLIENT: It's just not it's paranoia. It's so that nothing somehow nothing bad health-wise or you know what I mean. You won't get sick, if you just have a little bit of all these healthy things. So you don't like bananas? Well, it doesn't matter if you're getting your potassium from somewhere else. Bananas, they're just good for you. You should have one a day. Yeah, it's like all these it's just a very it's as if they're covering all their bases because they're so paranoid.
CLIENT: They didn't believe any of it.
CLIENT: For a while they thought that it wasn't really cancer. Then they thought, "Okay, if even if it is," they had all these cockamamie ideas it she got cancer because she's so they're a big they're so stressed and anxious, but their whole theory is that stress and anxiety causes illness. So they're all thinking was my aunt was so stressed and blah, blah, blah that she brought this onto herself. That, or that she didn't really have cancer. The doctors were...
CLIENT: Either lying or it was just their opinion.
CLIENT: Yeah, misdiagnosing.
CLIENT: Multiple myeloma. Blood.
CLIENT: Same with the diabetes, my uncle. It's like, oh, it's because I mean, yes, I mean and I keep trying to tell them, it's like if that was the case, I don't know, like 90 percent of the world -
CLIENT: Yeah, everyone yeah. Everyone has their own way of being in denial.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Being overly happy and not talking about it, yeah. Yeah. Their, yeah, their way is almost, I mean, I wish they in some ways, I wish they would just ignore it and just be happy all the time. I prefer that almost. But yeah, their way is they almost wallow in it, you know, why does this happen. It's a can ringing constantly, and then going from one extreme to the other. Either it's doomsday or if you eat enough cilantro, nothing bad will happen. It's just...
CLIENT: Yes. [00:27:59]
CLIENT: Yeah, and at the end -
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. And at the end of the day, I think things like that, it's hard to say that one thing caused it. I think it's very rare to say that I mean you could be working in asbestos all day long. Probably that's a big reason why you got whatever that came about, but I think there are people that work in asbestos that don't get (inaudible at 28:22).
CLIENT: Are smoking.
CLIENT: Right?
CLIENT: People that smoke their whole fucking my aunt, she's like 80-something. My dad's sister, perfectly fine. I mean, not perfectly fine, but she's fucking 80. She's alive and she's so it's a very this is something a kid could follow that kind of logic. I mean, it's just -
CLIENT: Right. [00:28:56]
CLIENT: Right. Right, right.
CLIENT: Well, I mean even a simple thing like cholesterol, right. My mom's cholesterol is 300-something. My mom's a stick. She's very slender, is very healthy. Probably her body is making the cholesterol because she eats healthy, but she eats like a bird, you know what I mean. A little piece of cheese, a little piece of bread, a couple of beans, a tomato. That's great, but her body probably or I mean, I don't know the reason, but I think that happens. If you're not getting enough fats, your body's like, what the fuck, so it just starts making some cholesterol, I think. I don't know. But her, and that's her thing. She's like, "Okay, well, so I need to eat more garlic," and that's all great, but man, 300. I think that's time to get on some medication. Lower it, and then eat your fucking garlic. But even that, they're just and [00:30:06]
CLIENT: Very simple.
CLIENT: That's like saying my knee hurts; I'm going to take some ibuprofen. There's something that helps for that. So -
CLIENT: Oh, no. Or the weird thing the surreal thing is they're selective. She has high cholesterol and there's something with her thyroid a little bit, it's low or something, whatever, and her vitamin D is low. So the doctor prescribed her some kind of so why take that? The same doctor prescribe you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It could be worse or it and maybe there's I've gone the other extreme, do you know what I mean, because I'm so I don't get the absurdity. But she eats healthy, she does know something of what she's doing, you know what I mean? No coffee, no cigarettes, no booze, no shitty foods. [00:33:10]
CLIENT: Yes.
CLIENT: I don't think she eats enough.
CLIENT: Exactly. Everything's very healthy, but not enough portions. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, she eats like a bird. Yeah, yeah. So but even that, she's good about. Now she goes to Whole Foods. I found these you know those Ensure things?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I'm like, kind of like the opposite in a weird way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: But my I will say my mom's actually better in the sense that at least she has her regimen. My mom -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like in the morning, she has something. At lunch, she has something. Like she'll mine's not mine's a little more -
CLIENT: a lot later in the day, I get hungry or, you know. But yeah, I mean, yeah, I guess it is kind of similar. Yeah. It is. It is a little bit similar. I mean...
CLIENT: No, I don't.
CLIENT: Yeah, overall.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's not a big deal.
CLIENT: I know, I know.
CLIENT: No, no. No.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was brought up so like no soda. I would only have ginger ale, ‘cause it has the ginger in it.
CLIENT: Wheat bread, never any white bread. Not a lot of red meat. I took cod liver oil every day.
CLIENT: She took, she would fucking give it to me every day. She would make her own I would drink carrot juice every day. She'd fucking make carrot juice. It was actually really good. Or she'd just take water, squeeze a lemon, put some honey, and make me drink it. So it's and I do have that, like I so (pause) but...
CLIENT: Yeah, they're -
CLIENT: They're big time health conscious.
CLIENT: Yeah. Probably a combination.
CLIENT: I mean -
CLIENT: I think they're smart. I think they maybe they caught on that hey, we were poor and we drank and would smoke, and ate potatoes and turnips, but that was healthy, and they were right. I guess. I don't know where that comes from. I really should ask about that actually. Why are they so it had to come from somewhere. [00:41:03]
CLIENT: Tomorrow at 11:30.
CLIENT: Okay, sounds good.
CLIENT: Thank you, Tricia. Just give me the sterilizer. (laughing)
CLIENT: See you tomorrow.
CLIENT: See ya.
CLIENT: I don't know, I guess I could. I mean I don't know, it's a weird thing. If you have to then, I don't know. It's yeah, it's tough. Ten bucks would definitely be tough, 5 would be tough but, I don't know.
CLIENT: Not really. In some ways not gotten worse, but I mean I barely pay my mom rent anymore. Just because I'm like picking up some of her bills and the whole student loan thing isn't, I'm trying to get that fucking thing organized. It just is what it is, you know. But so yeah, I don't know. No it hasn't improved. Basically it's the same. [0:01:16]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Not that I can get to. I just right now feel like I'm a bit overwhelmed.
CLIENT: Uh yeah, I mean I hate talking about money stuff. [0:02:02]
CLIENT: Of course, of course.
CLIENT: Right. Sure.
CLIENT: Oh sure. [0:03:08]
CLIENT: No I'm already doing really shitty so it's okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, but that's alright, it's not your fault. Just some normal stuff we've gotta talk about.
CLIENT: Well I've just not been, I was sick all last week, but I felt better for like two days, and now I'm having like panic attacks, anxiety attacks and but some TMJ thing going on all of the sudden. I felt really nauseous two nights ago all of a sudden. And that kind of happened once before some months ago. Like late at night, just sitting in bed I got really nauseous and then my hands got really sweaty and cold. So I don't know. [0:04:05]
CLIENT: Well I guess not full blown panic attacks, but anxiety attacks.
CLIENT: So I've been sleeping a lot. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah and I was really sick. Yeah I was really sick. I mean I don't know if I still have a touch of something maybe that's
CLIENT: Maybe, yeah. But the anxiety part is definitely. Yesterday I was gonna have a drink with a friend of mine, and you know I was driving, or I'd just gotten out of the car to stop at like a 7-11, I don't know what, suddenly I feel like tightness in my chest and blah blah blah. I'm like what the, you know? I feel like lately, it's like every little thing. It's like I feel like things are going haywire. I don't know what the fuck this TM, whatever this things is.
CLIENT: I assuming I've been grinding. I don't know what I've been doing. But like right now it's not that bad, but towards the evening sometimes, this thing right here.
CLIENT: It doesn't pop but it hurts when I try to open my mouth wide or whatever. Yeah, like I just don't feel well. Oh, then Christmas Eve I had that thing again where when I swallow it hurt really, really bad. So I'm fucking trying, people are talking to me and I'm having a fucking panic attack cause it hurt so fucking bad. I had to excuse myself, went to the bathroom. I coughed it up. Like what the fuck is going on? And then of course I was fine once that, I don't know. I don't know what. All I can think is that I must be so stressed and so wound up tightly, I don't know. Because I read about that thing and the only thing that seems to makes sense is that you can esophageal spasms. [0:07:30] (pause)
CLIENT: No I get these like things where like I can never tell when it's going to happen, but when I'm eating, the first few bites I take I can suddenly. The food is not going down. So it's like, it's incredible pain in my chest, incredible pain. Like unbearable. So it sometimes it'll eventually go away, but still it fucking kills, so I have to stop eating and just kind of try to act normal and you know. Try to swallow even though it hurts, other times, but lately it's not I have to excuse myself and I spit it up and all that comes out is saliva and the chewed food. Not to be gross, but. [0:08:26]
CLIENT: No it's as if it's stuck and I'm just getting it out.
CLIENT: And as soon as I do that somehow I start eating and things are fine. And I never know when it's going to happen you know? (pause) I don't know. So basically I just feel like a wreck. (30 second pause)
CLIENT: I don't know if my grandmother's thing her continue to [inaudible] triggered something? I don't know if the Kelly thing maybe makes me nervous on some level. I'm enjoying it but I'm nervous about it maybe, I have no fucking idea. Or I just feel stuck in general like I'm feeling a little something you know? I don't know. Stuck or restless. (pause)
CLIENT: Oh.
CLIENT: I didn't think about it, but yeah maybe.
CLIENT: Right, yeah that's true. I didn't think about that.
CLIENT: Well because I was sick the last week was a blur anyway. I think if I haven't been sick I would have noticed it more. But I was just out of it anyway. But I'm sure on some level, yeah you know maybe. (pause) I think there was like, even if I wasn't feeling too great I seem to feel better when I left here, so yeah maybe that on some level. [0:11:20] (pause)
CLIENT: and usually what happens it's an avalanche. Then I start thinking about not just death, but I start feeling claustrophobic like fuck I don't have money and you know my credit sucks, and how am I gonna fucking these student loans, and the house and that leak. I start feeling really like overwhelmed, and then the anxiety gets worse because then this voice is "See this is all bad. This is why you're fucking gonna drop dead. Because this is way too much stress for anybody, you know?" And that's not good for you and that's been proven that that causes illness and fucking heart attacks and. It's just becomes this bad place you know? (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah for some reason, they yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: I think it didn't help though like my grandmother's gotten so much worse, and then Christmas day night, I had to take her up to her apartment. And that's, I'm not doing that again. Like that's, I mean that broke my heart in so many ways, you know? She doesn't know where she is. She's a kid. Like I'll be honest with you this is how like frustrated I am. I [inaudible] [0:14:18] it that night. I got the idea, I was like you know what? I bet you I could call anonymously to the state, and be like there's this fucking old woman. I live in this building, blah blah blah. This old woman that's alone at night and I don't know what's going on here, but she's clearly you know. That's like where we've gotten. Like where I can't take it anymore. I can't you know. I've never seen anything like this. But it's all on my uncle and I don't want him to, I don't know what kind of trouble you know? I don't wanna, but that's. If I knew that he really wouldn't get into trouble, trouble. I think I would do that. That's as absurd as that sounds, that's where we are now. [0:15:09]
CLIENT: You can't, you can't keep having this woman around and then keep trying to rationalize with her and then they get annoyed because she doesn't get it. Like what? What are you fucking retards, like what?
CLIENT: I don't know, people are just. I just, he's done a lot, he's doing a lot, but he's there something though that he's just not completely stepping up, you know? You gotta just fucking. This would be solved in my opinion in a 1 week period. You find some people, you set up a schedule you come up with whatever the payment is you're done.
CLIENT: Either a home or a fucking person that stays with her over-night. Done, I don't care if she likes it or not. [0:18:00] (Sniffling) Think about that for a second, imagine you're mom, my mom, imagine me leaving my mom at 90 years old in a fucking apartment to do God knows what. When she doesn't know where the fuck she is.
CLIENT: I don't know what to do. And the thing is I don't know what else I can say. I've said it to them. I've been clear. Every time it's like oh absolutely she needs somebody, you know. I've said it, I've said to your mom too, let's just find someone, but why isn't it happening? I don't know. So it literally makes me feel sick, like I. I mean I think I'm too sensitive a little bit about these things, but (pause) [0:19:00]
CLIENT: And that's a tough emotion because it's a helpless, I don't know what do you, I'm not gonna get into a war with my uncle.
CLIENT: I told my mom though, I'm never doing that again. Don't ever ask me for me to walk her up to her apartment and leave her there. That's not gonna happen. So you guys figure it out. I don't know what you do, but I don't want that on me, I don't want that memory.
CLIENT: What would happen if I called, like how bad, how much in trouble would my uncle be if someone reported that she's alone at night?
CLIENT: Yeah, he signed some papers at the hospital.
CLIENT: I'm assuming. [0:25:12]
CLIENT: I don't know. I've been thinking about it. It's crazy, but I just feel like I, I feel like I have to do it for my grandmother. How could that possibly, can you imagine at night, all those fucking hours where it's not like she's making a cup of tea and going to bed. That's a fucking nightmare.
CLIENT: Of course, of course. And I don't think she really sleeps. [0:26:02] (pause)
CLIENT: So no, no. I could never ever do that.
CLIENT: And also I think he would really feel hurt. I think he would be, but I think he does, he feels a lot of guilt. But he just doesn't know what he's doing. Either he's still in some denial or I don't know what's going on.
CLIENT: I have.
CLIENT: Of course.
CLIENT: He'll be like yeah, let's make calls whatever. The problem is, if I make calls they step in, like well she doesn't like this person or well this person is not Assyrian, or this person, you know? They find ways, my mom not so much, because she is just like we gotta do something. But my uncle, he'll listen to my grandmother kind of. Because of course she doesn't want anybody overnight. Of course she doesn't, that's part of this whole thing. None of them want.
CLIENT: Even if she was a perfect English speaking American she wouldn't want someone, so. That's our where we can't I can't go beyond that with him. I don't know what else to say.
CLIENT: I guess.
CLIENT: I've told him, I've said look eventually she's gonna open that door and just walk out. Especially if she thinks we're neighbors or whatever the fuck, you know? I don't know what to do. I have called places, I've called some services, blah blah blah. Perfectly all seem like good places, but. (pause)
CLIENT: Because I mean she's fallen. They took her to the doctor yesterday, her back keeps hurting, and she doesn't eat. She's constantly annoyed or upset or like. Christmas Eve we're at my cousin's house she just wants to go home. She got very frazzled, she's like what the hell are we doing here? So it's not, you know. Like I basically think we're in the last 6 months of this, I think. You know what I mean? I think when it gets like this it gets, it starts really declining. So why not at least make her comfortable, you know? [0:31:38]
CLIENT: See I don't know. I don't know. That part I don't even know if my mom knows that. She knows it bad that something has to be done. But she has this whole thing about, Oh she'll bury us all, she's so strong, you know, because she's angry you know. I was like dude, she's not that strong. She's not that strong. Yes she's strong, she is strong, but now she's 90 and she's had two heart attacks and now she doesn't eat. She barely, she really doesn't know where she is. She has her hygiene is shit. She won't bathe. You know, I mean it is what it is.
CLIENT: But you know what I mean? Like I feel like if there's a part of me that's, it's easy to wrap yourself in that blanket, and then avoid being productive, kind of (pause)
CLIENT: He's probably thinking that's nice, at least there's my sister. You know it's not like he's being an asshole, saying fuck my sister let her. He's thinking oh that's nice, at least there's my sister, and they're there together. But no one, he even tells her, don't go there. Like don't go everyday. He gets it, he sees her enough. So yeah. I think that's when I see them enough, then I can't, it starts affecting me. I'm too, cause I do care. My grandparents are really special to me, like I can't just be like oh whatever. So it's almost like it does have to a little bit be out of sight out of mind a little bit, I guess. [0:36:30]
CLIENT: Yeah, no these emotions come up. I just feel angry about my dad and my mom.
CLIENT: There's old stuff about like my mom kind of being taken for granted, but then me being taken for granted. Yeah there's a bunch of stuff. And that's the kind of stuff a lot of people carry around, that you gotta somehow let go. That's not. (pause) [0:37:02]
CLIENT: Tomorrow at 11:30? Okay. Awesome. Thanks Tricia. See ya tomorrow.
CLIENT: Feeling a little better. It's good. Maybe it was that I hadn't come in here in awhile. I felt better after I left yesterday, or at least significantly better. Yeah my jaw hurts a little bit less, and I woke up early. That's good.
CLIENT: You know like yesterday I went to practice. It was great, like I didn't even think about my jaw, like when I was singing or. Had a great practice. It's definitely some kind of, or like the night before or whenever when I said I had that anxiety thing? But once I picked up my friend and we went to the bar, nothing you know I felt fine, you know so.
CLIENT: And it's just helpful, or if there is a day or two when I'm not feeling so great I just find that the minute I leave I just feel better somehow. A little bit, you know? It just helps put things in perspective and you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah no. That's gotten, I think I think this definitely was a combination of it's the holidays and I don't usually get that sick. I mean I can usually walk off colds, I don't really get that sick, you know? And so that and my grandmother's thing, and the holidays I think just triggered stuff. [0:03:30]
CLIENT: So I think it would be healthy for me to just already start getting into that mindset of like kind of, not distancing myself but just being like okay, this is gonna happen at some point. It could be 10, 20 years from now I hope. But it could be sooner, and. I think that's healthy for me instead of fighting it kind of, you know? It's because I feel so young, my mom seems so young like there's a sense that, but she's fucking 70. She's healthy but you know.
CLIENT: They're your parents, once they're gone even if you have siblings; you are alone in a way. Your siblings aren't your parents. So I don't know, like I started feeling a little less like somehow it's just me, but I have to deal with this awful thing, but I'm not gonna have a, and also I started thinking, it sucked about my dad, but you know. To get into your 40s and have a parent.
CLIENT: And a grandparent. And a parent who thank God is still vibrant and you know. Hey, that's not. So I don't know. [0:08:26]
CLIENT: So (pause) I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah it's a combination of all the childhood stuff, and then losing my dad and the succession of people kind of young, yeah. Definitely.
CLIENT: I mean they are, but not all the way.
CLIENT: Not all the way yeah, with that one last piece, which is very important. [0:11:40]
CLIENT: Because I've been wondering, I was like what? Am I not that into her or something? But it's not true, I am. It's just I think there's something in me that's like A. I don't want it to be overly intense or whatever just like in the past, but it's like I just don't want to overinvest I guess or something? I'd rather invest in myself or something. I don't know. Not sure but. (pause)
CLIENT: I think it's like growing pains; it's like when you're trying to come out of all these years of like fog and feeling like things are happening to you? It's a lot of growing pains to feel like well now I can do things. You know what I mean? So I think that's a wacky place to be.
CLIENT: Yeah, painful, it makes me nervous. Confusing, because you're not sure or wait so am I making the right decisions? Or do I? [0:15:46]
CLIENT: It's like I just gotta, if she wants to hang out with my grandmother, doesn't wanna, she's a grown woman. It's like why am I getting all worked up?
CLIENT: Well it's old stuff, stuff I was saying like the past. There were a couple of family feuds in the past when I was younger, where it seemed like my parents were the odd people out. And I felt that there was some unfair stuff.
CLIENT: Well like my aunt who died was the favorite. So there was some incidents where somehow things just aligned in a way that it seemed like there was some squabbling or something. I don't know, it just caused some issues, and I just remember there were some times when then that caused friction with my mom and dad. [0:19:40]
CLIENT: So I think that from a very young I was very you know. (pause)
CLIENT: Well I used to have not premonitions, but I used to worry that he would die young.
CLIENT: Well because I think I was already traumatized. Right? When I was like 10 he went to the hospital. So I think there was something in me that was just scary that my dad somehow.
CLIENT: but it was probably like yeah if you're 10 and your parents are rushed to the hospital I'm sure fucked with me, you know.
CLIENT: I used to have some fears about that yeah.
CLIENT: NO!
CLIENT: If in my mind I make that abstract connection that you, the stress somehow does something to him.
CLIENT: Well I used to get that sense a lot because they would fight a lot. My parents usually only fought related to this fucking family. You know, just weird. The funny thing was it was typical, like as any family, usually pretty petty, just kind of thoughtlessness, a little bit of disrespect, like just lame, you know? (pause)
CLIENT: Well my mom and my dad. Yeah.
CLIENT: So I think that. But I also just had that. I had that feeling, like I would argue with my own mom, not my dad but my mom. I would argue with them about fucking Reagan. Imagine how young I was. I would go off on them about Reagan and like racism, and what else? All kinds of shit, all kinds of shit. I mean really like.
CLIENT: All of it, I mean I was
CLIENT: Oh yeah. My parents were, my family was all like hardcore Republicans.
CLIENT: Because Soviet Union. Cold War. They just fear they were like, and plus they're immigrants so taxes, it's like we are working our asses off we want to be able to keep what we, all this stupid shit. And prejudice, so.
CLIENT: And prejudice, yeah.
CLIENT: Like you know, blacks. You know they don't like blacks, they don't like.
CLIENT: You know a lot of immigrants have that. People think they're immigrants, but usually immigrants are pretty fucking racist. So I mean we would have some fucking knock out, I mean really really like to the point where I would I mean, I think they were talking to my grandfather like kick me out of his house, I think, not quite but oh yeah yeah. I was very just you know. And I was right, of course I was right they've all come around now, but there was even like who cares like at that age who the fuck cares, I would just be you know. So I don't know what that's about I think, I don't know. [0:26:30]
CLIENT: Just in Assyrian stuff.
CLIENT: No, no. Other than that. My dad never got involved with the other shit. Even the Assyrian stuff. It was they were just annoyed, I think my grandfather especially and probably my uncle at some point. Remember my uncle was the Pope, or whatever. We're by default affiliated with you know like the PLO?
CLIENT: So, you know. But it's not like my mom is a fanatic, but she just spoke up and she called it like she seen it, and they saw it and they didn't like that, and who the fuck knows. Stupid.
CLIENT: Very realistic and she's well read. I mean she's like her father. My grandpa was well read, my mother is well read. And they both did not sit quietly. My dad was usually like whatever, because he knows better. He knows what his brother went through, he's like fuck this shit, who cares. But my mom is not like that.
CLIENT: They went through a period where everything was you know, was against that party. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah especially in a family where everything is political. They can't just sit around and talk about movies or something, you know so. It's I'm sure that's, and my dad is probably just trying to fucking be quiet, but that wears on you. Especially when they are so intense. My grandfather I've told you would just get up and leave and. Fucking ridiculous conversations.
CLIENT: But yeah, so I think I've carried a lot of that. It's only now that I'm, yeah you gotta let that stuff go. It was even over back then, I mean for a number of years everything was great, you know before my dad died. So it's just old, old 1980s stuff. Early 1980s or mid 1980s. Things were fine all through, it was really just, and actually maybe it was only just like 5 years in the 80s. Like 4 or 5 years.
CLIENT: Yeah but that's the problem, exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And being my other cousins were younger and they don't, oblivious. So that's the thing. They don't carry any of this.
CLIENT: And sensitive to it, instead of just being kind of naïve or oblivious. I was very much tuned in and would think about it, and dwell on it. [0:30:44]
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying, yeah.
CLIENT: It's clearly not. I mean no one's forcing her to do anything. It's like it's nonsense. It's like lock your, what are they gonna break into your house? Don't go, it's nonsense, but yeah it's just that feeling of. (pause) [0:31:36]
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think you know because I was probably also more angry at my mom a little bit, like it's you and your stupid family. You know what I mean? Where's I really just I was very close to, I felt very close to my dad. So I was just like, and I'm more like him in that way. Like who cares, I didn't understand why these things were such a big deal, you know. (pause)
CLIENT: I do.
CLIENT: Well the thing is I don't think I would have been as much if this other stuff hadn't been going on. I think I projected, you know what I mean? Because all that other stuff happened I was just pissed. So I would you know. But really when I think about it, the older I've gotten I still am really passionate about things, but I've also gotten really good at just smiling and nodding you know?
CLIENT: Exactly. I was upset, I was confused. I was also upset at my mom, right that was the whole why do you have acne? So any chance I got to be like you know, you guys are a bunch hypocrite fucking prejudice morons. I was really.
CLIENT: But in a way, unbelievable. I mean there were times when my uncle was like all right you have to stop, because my grandfather would get so upset, and they would worry for my grandfather. Not that I look back on it, but I mean I would just be honest. I would be like you guys are absolute hypocrites. I don't know what. You're a minority and you don't like other minorities. Just because of their skin, like that's the most idiotic thing I've ever heard.
CLIENT: Between like, the peak of it was, oh when I was this way?
CLIENT: The peak was between 15 and 17.
CLIENT: After 17 I started to kind of just do my own thing and not get so involved, and also it didn't matter, they made a fucking 180 with the first Gulf War. Suddenly they're fucking Democrats, they love Clinton. Yeah. [0:34:49]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean that's one reason I don't really follow the news anymore. Because I do, like I get I'm very visceral. So I usually try to avoid. (pause) [0:37:42]
CLIENT: Fuck yeah. Fuck yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. (pause) I mean they started saying all that when? After my dad died, like with each person who fucking dropped dead everybody softened up. You know what I mean? It's like all right.
CLIENT: It's important now I think. Because I think all that stuff makes it hard for me. Like I don't want to just get married tomorrow, or like all this stuff is for better or worse makes it hard for me to, there's just so much. I don't know. I'm not trying, like it's not a pity party, I'm just saying it's a lot of damage. Painful stuff. (pause)
CLIENT: Right, right. Yeah, yeah. And that's the thing like even talking about it now, I mean I'm fine but, I do feel a little more anxious now. Lie I feel like I'm tightening up a little bit. Because it's just yeah. It's a lot, and I never thought of these things in these terms. Quite you know, and it's like motherfucker, it's just like what the fuck?
CLIENT: Especially when a lot of times it was a number of fucked up things happening in one moment.
CLIENT: Like I'm arguing, I'm telling them that they're racists and they're acting weird because I have a pimple, you know what I mean? Like or saying something about how I'm dressed or something. It's just a clusterfuck of unhealthiness. [0:42:36]
CLIENT: Well yeah.
CLIENT: No I was gonna say in later years that was the time I had the blowout with my uncle. One time I did yell at him because she was taking care of my grandfather, you know. But, the minute it happened I knew it was stupid. I was like wait. I'm yelling at this guy about something he has no idea, it's just you know. It's not helpful. It's not helpful. And that was like. That was a big moment to be like, I was like alright I can't, wait a minute, what the fuck am I talking about? You know that's something I have to let go of. It's not, they have no idea. [0:43:38]
CLIENT: Cool.
CLIENT: yeah yeah, oh right that's the 31st.
CLIENT: Wow, the 31st. Jesus, okay. I got thrown off Tricia so I'll bring the check Monday. And what time Monday?
CLIENT: How's it going?
CLIENT: You look nice.
CLIENT: I'm not discounting the other stuff, but so I think I'm gonna get from the doctor I had at school my, because I think he has the sleep study. Because that worries me a little bit. So.
CLIENT: No diggety, no doubt. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean I think that's most of probably what it is. I think, but.
CLIENT: Parts of it were in ruins. Like it was fucking huge. I took a couple turns whatever when I was walking, and parts of it were completely in ruins. As if they'd been carpet bombed or something. Walking around. There were some Assyrians who I seemed to know, but I don't know who they were, and then I ran into my friends. And I didn't remember who those friends were but they seemed like friends. Yeah.
CLIENT: This was when I had finally gotten better, the 23rd.
CLIENT: Is it okay that I'm just running through these?
CLIENT: Okay the 29th one, well. Hold on (pause). (Playing from audio recording) I saw a nightmare Saturday night that I woke up from. Kelly. But I couldn't remember what it was. I just woke up, and woke up panicked.
CLIENT: (Audio recording) So that's about all that I remember. (Speaking Live) Yeah that was fucked up. Yeah.
CLIENT: But you know the weird thing is? The mouse and the puppy, they weren't really gross. That was the weird, and even in the dream I couldn't understand. Like I'm disgusted by rodents and snakes. Those are the two things I just; I'm not scared of them, but they just they're gross. And I was looking at this mouse, I was more grossed out that it was just getting soaking wet and it just looks nastier. But it almost didn't look like a typical mouse you know what I mean? Almost looked like a little hamster or something, it wasn't really. And the puppy was a puppy.
CLIENT: Okay then, okay the next one is just this past night. I saw my cousin in my apartment. He was like crawling towards me, and it looked like he was either having a seizure or a stroke, or something. He couldn't talk, and he was like when people have seizures they get kind of wacky. I called 911, I was panicked. Then I called 911 again, but I don't remember why. Then I saw my friend, and for some reason he had one leg. We were somewhere kind of Assyrian but then we got frustrated and left, and there was a bunch of other stuff too but I don't just remember what that was. So, yeah. I even tried to lookup online. I was like this must be, this must happen in this situation right? To some people. I couldn't find anything. [0:12:06]
CLIENT: Like if you're 3 times a week you're doing pretty serious therapy and if you've already been doing it before that there's gotta be some point where your subconscious is just like all this shit is going on probably that has to somehow, that your brain is trying to resolve somehow. Like I couldn't really find anything online about that, but it can't just be because of my grandmother, you know what I mean? Like even when my aunt, when serious shit happened, when people did die, my grandmother is perfectly alive you know? I didn't go through anything like this. (pause)
CLIENT: yeah.
CLIENT: And my days are actually pretty good, I'm not slacking throughout the day I like freaking out. You know it's kind of shitty to be a little bit uncomfortable when you're trying to chew or whatever, but so the only part that's sucking is I'm having more trouble, well not so much the last few days, but it gets to the point where you almost don't want to sleep or you have trouble sleeping because you are worried about dreaming, you know? That's the only thing. But you know. I mean you know how I am; I'm proactive about this shit. I read there's something called IRT? ERT therapy? IRT therapy. There's this whole therapy for [0:15:00]
CLIENT: Huh?
CLIENT: Like so somehow I feel like it's getting a little bit more. But yeah the only thing I make of it is yeah that I think this and so much has gone on in my life and I feel like a lot of things are changing and I'm thinking differently about things. So I think, you know. It's like the damn kind of burst a little bit, you know what I mean? That's all I
CLIENT: Initially. It's not that I thought it was really wrong, I just. It's
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just scary. It's just scary and I was like oh fuck I don't wanna go I don't want to slide back into shitty anxiety attacks and panic attacks. So it's not that, it makes sense that we have to go through this stuff probably to actually get, it means, it's like when you bruise. First you have to bruise and then it heals. So I'm sure there's a lot to that. But yeah it's more just that it's scary, plus the kind of physical. I just don't like this combination. For someone like me that's.
CLIENT: So there were moments where I would just stop and kind of let my mouth just relax? I was like whoa, I definitely noticed a little bit of a change.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, I mean you use your mouth to talk right? So when you're trying to express things. (pause)
CLIENT: I mean I don't think about that during the day or when I'm here but.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, right. I mean it feels good, mostly but.
CLIENT: You know? I think. I mean I don't know if he would ever say that that's what he meant, but that's the sense I got. That he's kind of, but anyway, I mean I don't know. But for me I think that's definitely a little bit part of it. There's something you know I'll just be like fuck you know why can't I just suck it up a little bit, and just you know? There's a little bit of that.
CLIENT: What? Suck it up?
CLIENT: You know I did look up to him a lot in that way. Just, and a real man, not a douche macho man, you know what I mean? Like a real man, you know? Took care of his family. Worked his ass off. Never complained. You know. Guy gets under a car in middle of winter, fixing it. Just you know, tough guy. So I mean how could you not respect that?
CLIENT: but of course it's just a different kind of neuroses because it's just the other extreme, you can't have that kind of extreme you know? Not too mention, what the fuck do I know? Maybe my dad complained privately to my Mom, you know there's a lot of things I don't know. Maybe he complained to his friends? Who knows.
CLIENT: Well yeah, cause that's the age. He died at an age where I didn't get to that point where I was an adult and now we are suddenly two guys, and you know I just always idolized him kind of. (pause) [0:26:01]
CLIENT: Because it's true I look at my guy friends and a lot of them, they're men I mean they're awesome guys, but a lot of them are a little bit soft or something. Like you know like they're just kind of suburban. Like going with the girl to Target, and he's gotta go home and pull the lawn. I think there' something, I don't know, I don't know what I'm saying but, there's something. Either that or because generally I try not to talk too much, or I don't complain much. I don't know what the fuck it is.
CLIENT: Yeah, well but what I feel like happens here I have to tap into a little bit of my Mom's side. They're the ones, they're very vocal. They fucking worry, they complain, and they express their fucking fears and all this shit.
CLIENT: A little bit. Yeah, yeah. I mean I think I'm overstating it, or it doesn't really feel that way.
CLIENT: I think subconsciously, because I don't think that. But subconsciously there must be something that's like oh what the fuck am I talking about in here. So I feel like a little embarrassed, or a little shy, or whatever, self-conscious.
CLIENT: Or the minute I kill one they just keep exponentially growing or whatever.
CLIENT: Or you know like it's probably also that I'm anxious about the record. You know. Maybe like after all these years, I mean almost 9 fucking years I've worked on this record, off and on. That's kind of that in and of itself causes me anxiety. What happened? Like 9 fucking years. I mean it's exciting and all but then I feel like there's something is, I'm closing some chapter I feel like, you know what I mean? It's weird. So maybe that, I don't know. I don't know there's a number of things maybe.
CLIENT: And the funny thing is all good things.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think there is some of that. Last night I was bawling. I watched, what the fuck movie did I? I watched this stupid, I mean it wasn't a stupid movie, but it wasn't. I watched this movie with Jason Segal and Ed Helms. Two brothers. Yeah it was pretty good. It was a good like late night hanging out with Cecelia watching a movie. But at the end I was likely totally crying. Totally crying. And I was like hugging Cecelia and like just she's so amazing and. I don't know.
CLIENT: But, Yeah it was weird, I just got. And I mean I know. You know are improving when you just let yourself cry. You know what I mean? Like I wasn't like why the fuck am I crying? Yeah it just felt good. I was telling Cecelia I love her, you know? She was right on my chest. And then even as I was crying I was like yeah I'm crying partly too because I can't believe I have this critter who I can just give unconditional love too, and who actually shows me love back. Like she's just, that she really melts my heart, she just does, you know what I mean? She'll just come over and put a paw. She'll just come over, put a paw right here, and look at me. That's it. I'll eat her up. Or like she'll come on my chest and just I'll cradle her. She just like lays there with one paw and looking at me with these big blue eyes, like what the fuck? So that and the movie, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think that's why I've been watching a lot of movies. I have been watching all these pretty good movies that are kind of. They're just comforting and they're also, you know. It's what art does in some ways. It helps you work through some things. Especially if you're not a real crier per se. You know there has to be, I do cry but, there's not in here or not when I'm talking to my friends, or. It's a very private like. So sometimes it's nice if there's a trigger it lets you. [0:35:06]
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: I didn't really think about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I was a little wow, kind of for me. You know how I am. I was immediately like am I crying too much? So I was what the fuck am I? But it felt good too. I was like I felt like something is coming out, let it go. Like it's good too. So that felt good.
CLIENT: And I think like a lot that is I just start feeling a little like uneasy, like wow, this is like visceral.
CLIENT: Like it's very primal, do you know what I mean? When you're crying, you suddenly you remember that you're an animal, do you know what I mean? But more and more over these last several like, I've usually even as I'm crying I've known that oh this is good. Like this has been building up so it's good that it's. Doesn't really bother me.
CLIENT: Yeah in some ways yeah.
CLIENT: Things are just getting, yeah, yeah exactly. Yeah exactly. Especially when you don't cry often. It's like give me a break, like yeah sometimes you cry. Some people cry all the time. [0:37:14]
CLIENT: Well I always know exactly what it. It's always some moment of human connection. It's always, always, always that. Some kindness or some. Or like someone will remember somebody and they feel this, you know, and you, it resonates with me. But it's always something about memory or contact or something like that. And a lot of times not major, but this one was major, drowning and all that. But sometimes, especially the best movies it's always some little, little thing. Oh man, yeah. [0:38:07] (pause)
CLIENT: I've never thought our relationship would improve as much as it has. It's not great, but it's fucking good. I mean compared to a lot of people with their parents now, I have a pretty good relationship with my Mom, or my uncle, or you know. So I think yeah there's something going on where I'm like. In the past I would have shut, I mean yeah they're my cousins but I'm still alone. Or my uncle but I'm still. I don't feel that as much anymore. Of course my uncle is not my Dad, but he's my fucking uncle. You know? And he cares, and he's around. So in the past it was always like well people will forget about me or they will, you know what I mean? It was very me against everybody. [0:40:02]
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah she's. I was like maybe I should write an essay about this. But I don't want to be a douche bag who writes about a cat. But (pause)
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: What idiot writes an essay about a cat? (Laughing) But I still might though, because it really is unreal. Like I've never experienced anything like this.
CLIENT: Yeah but that's what makes me me. I like that part of.
CLIENT: Speaking of which, your outfit is a little crazy today. You've gotta tone it down that's like the best. You look a little too good.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: Just I don't know, honest. I mean you're always beautiful, but like your. (pause)
CLIENT: It's a what?
CLIENT: And she's like I cannot believe that you like, she's like I love that about you. Like I've never dated a guy that gives a shit about these things, like details, you know? And we were both saying it, and she's like I've said things before and people were c'mon don't be so judgmental. Just because she's wearing those shoes. Like what's the? We were both saying, but that's not the point. Of course they're good people, it's not about the people. It's just something about people that have a little style, and pay attention to the little details, you know.
CLIENT: Oh yeah that's what I'm saying. When I say high standards, I'm not just joking. [0:43:13]
CLIENT: That's right. That's who I am. No you're right. That's right. That's not going anywhere. Because that's like saying maybe one day I'll like shitty music. I'll never will, and I will always be an art snob. Music is not, I don't give a rat's ass. Some things are better than other things. So and I think fashion is, I mean I don't have a lot of money to buy all the things I wanna buy, but I feel like I have my own style or whatever. I feel like it says something about you. It is kind of artistic. You know what I mean? I really believe that I love people who everything they do is kind of part of art, do you know what I'm saying? Like it's hard to do that in the states, but that's what I try to do. Like I feel like conversation, the way you dress, your demeanor, you know you're living an artful kind of life. You know? [0:44:15]
CLIENT: But my Mom's side they're very. They have good taste, and you know. Yeah I think that's a good thing as long as you're not. Yeah as long as it's not narcissistic, and you're just discounting people, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's pretty rare.
CLIENT: That'll never happen, no I'm kidding.
CLIENT: [inaudible] Dial it down, a fucking nightmare. No, no, no.
CLIENT: My friend Mikey wears those stupid Camper. You know that brand Camper? She just cannot fucking stand those shoes. But he's Mike, I mean I love him. He can wear whatever the fuck he wants. So it's not, you know. Matthew wears stonewash jeans and white sneakers.
CLIENT: So Thursday at 12:50?
CLIENT: Thanks Tricia. Have a wonderful New Year's.
CLIENT: How's it going?
CLIENT: What's up?
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Great, even better, that's good.
CLIENT: Actually, you know what? Maybe I'll start doing that, even if I pay a little extra each time, you know, that would be good.
CLIENT: How's it going?
CLIENT: How was your New Year's? [0:01:00.3]
CLIENT: So, I had kind of a big night last night, very symbolic, very good. I was at home, (drumming) it was around maybe 11:00 or something like that, and I just, for the first time since I've been back from England, the first time, I went and I sat at my desk and I wrote a verse. It wasn't much but you know, it felt good, it felt good. I've got like one verse and I just kind of sat there, you know, and then I was like all right, I'm not going to beat myself up. I sat down, I did it, you know?
CLIENT: The first time since that's I hadn't done that since I've been back. I just suddenly felt, I don't know.
CLIENT: I think I'm just because I'm just slowly, you know, just feeling better, things are just falling into place. I just felt kind of excited to actually do it, do you know what I mean? [0:02:08.1]
CLIENT: I was like look at this, my I have my parents' old dining room table, so, you know, it's a pretty big table, and I use it as a desk. It's one of these old, kind of dark wood, with thin legs kind of thing. It's really nice. So I have that pushed into this kind of little nook thing that I have, and I have my office chair, and I was like, you know, I don't know. It just felt like you know. Cecelia jumped up on the table and kind of like sat near me while I was it was awesome. So I don't know if that's... That's a big deal, I think.
CLIENT: (drumming) I haven't seen any really awful nightmares. I actually saw a really nice dream, well I think it was a really nice dream, last night, where I was in a class. We had this family friend... When my mom went to work at this corporation, she was kind of recruited by this Persian Assyrian, who was the chief of that back then, and he was also a very well-known modern Assyrian writer, very, very and he was a great guy, a very, very sweet man. So I kind of got to know him. He saw some of my poetry when I was like 18, 19, and he died from illness, but he was older, you know, a pretty old guy, but he was a very robust, kind of just one of these like full of life kind of. [0:03:51.1]
CLIENT: This really sweet guy. So, I saw this dream out of nowhere, that I'm in a class of his, like an Assyrian literature class or something. But then, the cool thing was, I don't know what we were doing but we were all kind of using chalk or these really cool crayons, to like draw our ideas. And it wasn't like we weren't like children, I mean this was like a university class. It just, it was awesome, and I was doing all these cool things, like I was drawing really nicely. Not as in figuratively nicely, but I was just doing all this cool shit.
CLIENT: Very creative, yeah. They were kind of nice colors and it was really weird. Then, I told I think I was with my good friend, the one who got divorced, my good Assyrian friend, and I think I was telling him that, like I'm going to go to the Academy of Art, or something academy of art, and I was kind of happy about it. And then I had some other idea about traveling somewhere else. I don't know, but it felt, it all felt pretty good, although I have no idea, why him, like why I saw his name was Joseph. I don't know why I saw him. I've never I haven't thought about him in years and years and years. But anyway. [0:05:15.4]
CLIENT: Yeah, very, very, yeah, yeah. It was really like I mean, he was kind of old when he died but he wasn't that old. He was young for you know? Very, very sweet, robust, like very like a true artist kind of, you know?
CLIENT: Sure. Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well also, my friend, the one Assyrian guy that I took some kind of lessons from, who passed away, he was the same way, very just you know? Like my dad, these were like men, you know?
CLIENT: But artists. They didn't compromise, they didn't you know? And very optimistic. I mean, optimistic/pessimistic, you know, which is like kind of what I am I think, just full of life, pushing others, not having egos, being happy if others do well or being willing to help others. Very cool people. I was like oh, maybe I'm seeing it, because I've been thinking more and more and more about going to Assyria. So maybe that has something to do with it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right. The opposite actually.
CLIENT: At home for example, I pay attention to detail, you know, like where my books are. I have these one or two knickknacks at the end of the books, like here.
CLIENT: For some reason that gives me pleasure, I like what those little knickknacks are. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's not a typical guy, especially a guy thing, you know? But, you know, stuff like that resonates, like I love that Freud had all those fucking knickknacks on his desk. I don't know what that is, for some reason I love that he did that. I don't know, things like that are important to me. [0:08:30.5]
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: It wasn't like that, yeah.
CLIENT: That's right.
CLIENT: Absolutely. Yeah, him, and this teacher of mine, and in a way too, my dad. I mean he wasn't an artist, but for a guy that was a mechanic and worked in a factory? You know, I mean the way he carried himself, the way he dressed, the way he interacted with people, was not typical. [0:09:43.9]
CLIENT: Exactly. The way he'd like to go to stores and check out colognes and flirt with the perfume girls and smell the different smells, and there were things he liked and things he didn't like, or that he even gave a shit, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. My mom has that too. The problem is with my mom's, all these kind of more negative sides kind of my mom is a very well put together woman. She doesn't look her age, she's very kind of dainty and she dressed kind of cute for a woman her age. So then she puts her hair in braids? I mean, it's kind of adorable, it's ridiculous. And she's very, you know, we kind of look like each other but she's much more she's like very, very white and kind of very regal looking kind of. But it's just that the negative sides kind of cover that, you know what I mean? For my dad, it was like he didn't talk about it, he didn't care if other people noticed it. You know what I mean? He wasn't doing it to keep up with the neighbors or, you know? [0:10:51.0]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Harder to see her good qualities and her yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, oh, yeah, no, absolutely, absolutely. (drumming) Actually, that's wow, I just thought of this. I was hanging out New Year's Eve with Donnie and Lila and Matthew, whatever, we went to my boss's ridiculous get-together. But, first they came over to my house for some drinks, to my place, and I was putting the beers in the fridge and Lila was helping, and I was like, "Oh, Lila, you changed your hair color, you look so good." And her and Donnie, they just looked at Lila goes, "I told you." And they just started laughing. I was like what? Lila's like, "I told him that only Brian is going to notice that I've done anything to my hair." She was like, "I can't believe it, I knew that you were going to notice it, no one else has noticed." I was like, "Oh, it's kind of noticeable." [0:12:08.8]
CLIENT: No, no, no.
CLIENT: No, and I felt good about it. I felt like fuck man, that's awesome, that's why chicks dig me, that's why I dig me. I like that, you know, it's important, things like that.
CLIENT: No. No, no, it's not, yeah. It has nothing to do with that.
CLIENT: And it's also not in the past, I would worry that it's like some kind of douchey, metrosexual... Remember that whole...?
CLIENT: That would annoy the shit out of me. But, you know, more and more I'm like, what does any of that mean, like that's I'm just who I am and I like what I like and I'm proud of that.
CLIENT: I know, it's silly, it's silly. [0:13:14.7]
CLIENT: George does.
CLIENT: George does.
CLIENT: The guy who works in a diner like 14 hours a day, I mean I don't blame him. Musicians do sometimes, you know, our fingers. My fingers are all kind of jacked up sometimes.
CLIENT: I don't do that but I can understand why some guitar players do that. But it was funny, I was at my New Year's Day, I was invited to that music teacher's wife's house, she had a get-together. She's a really great lady, I'm really glad I reconnected, because I wasn't here when he died, and we had this time where I just, you know. Nothing happened, but I was just, you know, you kind of drift. So I was really like it really bummed me out that he died, and I wasn't able to like kind of reestablish a relationship with him, or at least tell him how important he was, whatever. So I'm really glad I'm able to hang out with her. She's such a cool lady, she's such a cool lady. But when I was at their house, I was going to leave and they're like, "No, no, stay." I was the last one there with her and her daughter and her daughter's two friends or cousins or whatever. But it kind of felt good, like I was totally myself, you know? Like I wasn't they were going to have Prosecco with some strawberries in it or some shit, and I was like, "Yeah, that's a little gay for me." And I know, even as I was saying it, I was like well, they're not going to quite get my humor as much, but I didn't care. I was like, I'll take the Prosecco, I just don't want the fairy dust in it, or whatever you're going to put in it. But I was like, I don't like, now I feel more comfortable when I say things like that, because I know I'm not trying to, clearly it's not gay. You know what I mean? [0:15:04.8]
CLIENT: I'm just being funny and I just don't like drinks like that, you know what I mean? It's not anything... It's literally, just like what I'd like to drink, just like I like drinking shitty beer, not because I'm manly. I literally just don't like the taste of that crappy, heavy beer.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly, exactly. I can't help it, like I like to you know? And then I kind of because then I like to make themes on it. Then one of the girls said something and I was like, "Well, now you're the one being gay." You know, like I was just like, you know, and then they got it, they knew I was joking around. And, you know, also it's a test. If someone gets a little ruffled, I immediately know that person is not for me. Do you know what I mean? It's a way of filtering people out, honestly, because that's just who I mean, I need to make jokes all the time. Life is, what the fuck's the point if you're not going to laugh? So, people that kind of don't get that shit, or if I see a retard, you know, and they're like rrrrr, you know, I'm like all right, you know, you don't know me, you know what I mean? So that kind of stuff, I feel like I don't know, it's important. Or if I say something about someone's ethnicity, like if I say, (laughs) sometimes when I toast, I'll wait several months, so it's a surprise, and then when I you know, I like to do a lot of toasts, and oftentimes they're kind of serious a little bit, it's my moment of sappiness. But then sometimes I'll just be like, "All right guys, white power." And everyone gets all, you know? Like that's if people don't understand that that's, you know, then I don't want to be friends with them. I make fun of Assyrians, I make fun of myself. [0:16:58.6]
CLIENT: But it also felt good to be at that get-together and be totally comfortable. When I walked in, there were already people there, just like sitting around, and I walked in. I felt the normal way you would feel, but you know, I just felt very comfortable, I chatted with people, very kind of I just felt very grounded and so it was good. I also didn't let myself get upset because my mom didn't come. She was supposed to come, but that day, I called her and she had that sound in her voice, like she's just defeated. She's like your grandmother, ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. I didn't let it bother me, you know, I was like okay. In my mind, I was like that really sucks. And normally, then I would go to that get-together and I'd kind of fester a little bit, I mean people would know, but in my mind I'd be like oh, my mom's not here and see these fucking, like uppity, more well-to-do people, like they don't have a care in the world and my mom's fucking schlepping around with my you know? [0:18:21.0]
CLIENT: I would start doing that thing. But I didn't, just I was like, you know what man, everyone is living their lives. These people are going to go home and schlep around other things, like everyone's got something.
CLIENT: Or personal or kind of segregated, or like, you know, because of that, that that means I don't belong here, you know what I mean? Because my mom is so whatever, whatever, then somehow I am tainted and I don't belong in this. I didn't feel that way at all. I was like, who are these fucking people, who cares?
CLIENT: So. [Pause] So, the one question I had though today was well, that we've talked about before, but I think it's important, is so like with Kelly, is it wrong to date somebody when you're not dating other people, but in the back of your mind still be open to like meeting an Assyrian person? Do you know what I mean? I'm feeling weird about this. I think it's an unusual because it's not like I'm saying if I meet someone better in general, it's not like that. It's more like there's something very specific that's almost impossible to find, but I can't help leaving this small window, you know?
CLIENT: I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
CLIENT: And I guess if you're just dating, you're not married, you're not living together, I don't see the harm in it, and you're not actually cheating on somebody. But it just does feel a little strange, to be conflicted a little bit. [0:20:34.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, because I just feel like mentally, I'm like 99.9 percent with her, but then there's that .1 percent that, you know, I do have one eye open, kind of. Like a part of me is like oh, you never know, what if I go to Assyria and there's some really cool chick there or whatever. That feels kind of not right in a way, but on the other hand I'm like, yeah but wait, what's the alternative? I'd break up with every single girl that I might actually date because there's some potential? You know what I mean, like that doesn't make sense either. I can't just be a monk and wait for some ridiculous possibility. So I guess I just figure well... And again, it's not the same thing as like waiting for someone better in general, you know what I mean? [0:21:40.8]
CLIENT: Well, you know, maybe there will be someone skinnier and I don't know, with nicer tits, you know what I mean? Like that's a different story. Or a richer girl or something. That's, I think, very douchey, but this is, you know, it's delicate, it's just complicated, it's a cultural it's like a deeper thing. Like, you know, when I was at this get-together, when it was me, the mom, my teacher's wife, she's like 65, her daughter who's 35, her daughter's cousin and some other girl, I don't know. But there was something about that, the conversations we had, and the fact that I could speak Assyrian, you know it matters, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, and it always does. Whether it's a serious conversation like that or when I'm with my buddies and we're just having Dunkin and making jokes, or I'm just listening to them tell stories. What do you do, down the road, if I cook Kelly to that get-together, it would be totally fine, there were people there who weren't Assyrian, but then at the end of the night, it was this and we did speak a lot of English, but I just like the fact that (snaps fingers) I could just, I could make I could interject a little joke in Assyrian, I could you know? [0:23:05.3]
CLIENT: What do you do with that, you know what I mean? And a lot of the things we were talking about, I think Kelly would have something to say actually. It was just about identity and belonging and assimilation or not assimilating. Everyone has some anyone who's interesting and has a brain might have something to say about things like that, but I don't know.
CLIENT: See, the problem is... I told my friend. My friend George was visiting and his wife is black, and he's American Assyrian too. He doesn't know Assyrian the way I know it but and I was trying to explain to him, without being rude. I was like, you know the thing is man, his kind of American Assyrian is a little different. He's very assimilated.
CLIENT: You know? Very, very proud Assyrian, very, very proud Assyrian, but there's just something about him and people like him. They're just... I just can't explain. Culturally, there's somehow more so. With me, the issue is not only do I speak Assyrian really, really well, like with this woman is from Beirut, she's 65.
CLIENT: I can immediately talk and relate to her as if I'm from Beirut.
CLIENT: It's weird, you know, like I feel very comfortable and something about that. I feel a pull, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Especially to the Middle not necessarily the ones from Russian Assyria, but the ones from the Middle East. Maybe because I was brought up in such a bubble or something, I don't know, or I just like them. They're warm and they're a little more European, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: There's something about them that's a little more interesting and European. I don't know. My other American Assyrian friends don't have that extra thing, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So like when I was there, there are Assyrian, they're all Assyrian, these other girls, but I was the one making Peeta laugh, interjecting little words that they didn't even know what those words were, little sayings. So I feel like it's language and just a cultural... things you don't have to explain, do you know what I mean? [0:25:28.4]
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I was trying to tell George. I was like, I feel like I'm a really weird bind, because a lot of Assyrian American girls, a lot of them don't know Assyrian that well.
CLIENT: Or they do know it but they're a bit lax about it. Or, they do know it the way I know it but then they're too... do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I'm in this weird, weird...
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly, exactly, and I feel like that's a bit of a blessing and a curse. It's a blessing artistically.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: As a cosmopolitan, I feel like a true cosmopolitan person, in like the old sense of the word. Yeah, I often feel stuck, you know I don't like George's wife, for example, I love her, she's like a sister to me, but at the end of the day she's more like family. I feel really comfortable with her but she's so Assyrian, Assyrian, that you know, there are things I can't really talk to her about, you know? [0:26:46.8]
CLIENT: But then with my super American Assyrian friends, which I don't have many of actually, but they're just basically American. Either they don't know Assyrian that well or they become a little more like... what's the word? Almost like weekend Assyrians, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: They'll go to the church bazaar and they care about Assyria, but then that to me almost seems kind of contrived. Do you know what I mean? I don't know, it's just a tough bind to be in, it's really hard, it's really hard. I really feel like I'm in a place now where I just have to, you know? You have to make a decision. George was honest, he was like, "Yeah, you're right." He's like, "Let's say you married someone like Kelly, I mean you're not rushing into anything." He's like, "Yeah, you are going to lose part of that." One day we're not going to have parents or whatever, whatever, whatever, and your Assyrian is going to, you know, unless you find some way to speak Assyrian often. [0:27:55.3]
CLIENT: And he's like, you can't force her to be somehow... you know, which I never would. So then what you know what I mean, it's like you're in this weird...
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: That's right. Yeah, when I'm with my American friends, a lot of them have learned certain Assyrian phrases, because I just say them. They're funny and you know? [0:29:01.2]
CLIENT: I think a lot of it just has to do with language. What was I going to say, something about that it embodies both. Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: It suddenly just because I was listening to you and I suddenly... It was something about language, just that it's just very I feel very comfortable. Oh, yeah, no, no, I was going to say you're right about these the Assyrians who are American, or even ones who do know Assyrian fairly well, they speak English. And I've noticed the last maybe five to ten years, it kind of annoys me. I'm like wait a minute, we all know Assyrian, why the fuck are we speaking English, I don't unders like, isn't it cool that we know it's pretty awesome, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's a beautiful language. You're going to speak English the minute you leave this house, or wherever we are, so you know? I don't know, stuff like -
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah, so stuff like that kind of annoys me and that makes me feel even more alienated in a weird way, because I'm like even with the fucking people that should be speaking Assyrian.
CLIENT: And that's why I love my immigrant Assyrian friends. Sure, we speak English, but we speak a lot of Assyrian. Like in one sentence, we'll say half of it in English, half of it, we'll interject words or we'll, you know? And some of them, they're just workers or whatever, some of them aren't that educated, but man, when they want to, because of their youth, like they got a good education when they were kids, like their vocabulary is so beautiful, you know they pull out these words that are just awesome. I don't know, so that matters to me. I don't know. [0:31:10.0]
CLIENT: That's true, sure, sure.
CLIENT: But see, that's what I'm saying, that's why the language part is the extra.
CLIENT: You're totally right, but when you have a common spoken language, that's -
CLIENT: Yeah, that's totally different. But there's something about a spoken language, especially when it's not like French, you know what I mean? It's such a unique language, there aren't that many Assyrians in the world, so it is, it's like a secret language kind of. [0:32:23.0]
CLIENT: And there's something about that that complicates things. I mean, Kelly is from West Virginia, she grew up in England, her dad was super eccentric, like I mean she's got a whole... obviously, you know? But, because we both speak English, I can relate on that level, that yeah, I grew up in American too and that's awesome. You have a unique history, I have a unique history. It's more about how's it going to work when we're hanging out certain places and I want to speak Assyrian?
CLIENT: Is she just going to sit there and be like oh, that's cool, you speak you know what I mean? Or, I'm going to constantly have to translate what I'm saying, which just always kind of just comes out lame, generally. I don't know. Or, I'm just over-thinking it.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. [0:33:24.4]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I'm worried about. That is what I'm worried about, yeah, taking her to family get-togethers.
CLIENT: Of course, sure.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'd want her to feel totally comfortable and feel like okay, they're not just saying things in Assyrian. Like, I don't know, that's a little, you know?
CLIENT: That's the thing, I mean I think a lot of this is about personality. Some people will be like that's awesome, you know what I mean? Maybe this is my mom's side, I don't know, the worrying, kind of. Maybe I worry that down the road, she might be like listen man, I get the Assyrian, you know what I mean? Like enough.
CLIENT: Now you've got to come to my side, you know?
CLIENT: Because you can't force it, that's just got to be from her. I can't be like listen, I want twice a week, for there to be Assyrian ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. I mean I could, but then I can't be upset if one day she's like all right, now, I just feel like we've been doing this for a while and I'd rather do -
CLIENT: You know? It's human nature. It's like if she said, I want us to learn Gaelic and Polish, because that's my heritage. I don't know. I'm actually taking it to a practical, that's kind of what I'm worried about.
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly.
CLIENT: That's right, that's right, except that this part, I think can cause even more resentment.
CLIENT: It's really important and there is a tribal, like you and I are speaking this language that this person doesn't know. I would feel that way. It's not impossible, it's just something that's a reality. [Pause] But like George said, he's like, "That stuff, you've got to let go of." And, I mean, he's a super realist. He's like dude honestly, what your mom, I mean, they're not going to be around forever. That little cocoon that you're feeling, even a lot of these they're all older than me, you know, I mean God forbid, whatever, but his whole thing is that at the end of the day, you're coming home to this person. [0:36:05.0]
CLIENT: So, he's like that's got to be the he's like, "Things have a way of sorting themselves out if you're completely comfortable when it's just you and her, nobody else, just you and her." I think he's right in that way.
CLIENT: Not of my being Assyrian but of my interacting in Assyrian.
CLIENT: And in a way, I think that is over-thinking it, only because it's not like every single day I'm, you know? I think it would be stuff she would enjoy. I do like going to the November bazaar, it's fucking awesome. And I don't go there like marching with a flag, like, I just like it. I like it in a way -
CLIENT: Exactly. I would like it if you go to church or whatever, probably your bazaar. I just like the little old ladies making knickknacks and selling pickles and I don't know, little kids running around. It's a community and I think that's healthy. I'm lucky that I have that, just like anybody. It doesn't have to be an Assyrian thing, just any sense of you know. So yeah, in that way, I think I'm over-thinking it. Yeah, I'm over-thinking it.
CLIENT: That's true.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I mean, she clearly knows.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: True.
CLIENT: True, true.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, no, no, absolutely. Also, the more I think about it, on a week to week basis, what am I doing that's so Assyrian?
CLIENT: I mean, you know, it's really -
CLIENT: Exactly, get-togethers once in a while, and even at those get-togethers, we mostly speak English.
CLIENT: Because all my dopey cousins speak English.
CLIENT: So, yeah, I mean, and I have an Assyrian cousin who doesn't speak Assyrian, so it's not like she would be alone. So yeah, no, I think I'm just over-thinking it.
CLIENT: I do, yeah, my jaw mostly feels better.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. In the mornings when I wake up, it's still a little bit tight, but not any where near, no, way better. Sleeping better. I don't know, maybe just coming back here, maybe now that the holidays are over, or maybe I finally really kind of separated myself a little bit from the grandmother, whatever, ordeal. I don't know. Yeah, something definitely feels... I've been thinking about my book more, kind of trying to organize it in my head and actually having a theme. I have a title, I have some ideas, whatever, I don't know. I don't know, you know? I went today and I bought some of those gay black, tight things you wear when you run outside, I did that. [0:39:57.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, I think just and I have worked really hard here. I think things are just kind of paying off in different ways. I think it helps also, that I don't get too caught up one way or the other, in how I'm feeling on a particular day. Like in a way, I don't feel that different than I felt last week. I mean, I know there is a big difference, but in some ways I feel like yeah, I mean, I was just a little bit more down, but I wasn't in a panic. I was more anxious, but I wasn't letting it go to the point of like do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like I was managing it much better than I would in the past. [0:40:58.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, no clearly overall, just something is definitely just kind of moving in the right direction.
CLIENT: It could be what? Believing?
CLIENT: Oh, relieving, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, no it's true, I mean I really look forward to being here, it's really true, like I get excited that I'm coming here. I was even thinking about this and I was like fuck, if I go away for like a month or two, you know? Oh, and then, I was like holy shit, I don't know if I can leave my cat. Then I couldn't believe that I was thinking that, but she was like I was like I don't know how, fuck, you know? [0:42:22.6]
CLIENT: I did think about it, yeah, no I did think about it, because I don't do stuff like I mean, I don't take vacations.
CLIENT: You know? So yeah, no I definitely did think about that, because I thought about everything, like I was like oh, I'm becoming one of those well, I'm not becoming, I am one of those people. I like my routine, I like that I know my little Dunkin Donuts and my spots, and here, all that. I was like it's kind of it will be unnerving a little bit. But there's something telling me it's kind of like going to England the first time. I just feel like what the fuck, I mean come on, a month, two months even, whatever. It's not you know, I don't want to be one of those people that's like... Because I think that can become a bad if you don't challenge yourself, even if you're not feeling comfortable initially, I don't like that. Otherwise, you just kind of, you know, you'll get stuck in a rut and then you become more and more hesitant to travel or whatever. I don't want to be like that. Also, I think the biggest reason I'm nervous is because I'm worried that not worried. I feel like I'm going to go and I'm going to play songs for people and people are really going to respond, and it's going to be odd. Do you know what I mean? I mean, think about my whole life, I've never other than put out these one or two or three records, whatever, and yeah I've played shows, but I've never really taken it out there, like I've never... And that's... [0:45:11.1]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: At 10:00?
CLIENT: At when?
CLIENT: Oh, nice. Is that the regular time?
CLIENT: Okay, awesome. Thank you, Tricia.
CLIENT: So, 11:30.
CLIENT: (inaudible at [00:00:04]) (chuckles) whew, oh yeah, ooh (sniff) aw man, whew. I had some crazy dreams again last night and I don't remember what they were or if they were really bad.
CLIENT: They were kind of bad I think and some parts were kind of bad but (inaudible) [00:00:27].
CLIENT: I don't remember about anything. Next time when I woke up I remembered, no, I don't remember. Just when I woke up I was like all right that was some weird shit. I think there was a girl, there might have been (rugeneck) (ph) because we did, we fixed that leak thing. Did I tell you about that?
CLIENT: The last few days so maybe I saw some construction maybe.
CLIENT: And I guess it's good it wasn't so bad like some times on my job it doesn't really hurt that much.
CLIENT: Actually, doesn't hurt at all. (sniff). But...
CLIENT: No, no it wasn't. (inaudible) it was even weird, it was only weird because I think it was like disparate things. It wasn't any kind of, I saw these random images or whatever, I think. at [00:01:27]
CLIENT: It makes me nervous, too, a little bit like Kelly (sp?) is coming to hang out tonight and hope I don't like in my sleep or you know, (slip out) (ph) wake her up or I don't know what I'm doing when I'm sleeping. [00:02:14]
CLIENT: But I (inaudible) like snoring really bad, or do you know what I mean? Like, maybe she would have said something by now if I was, but, ah, yeah. Yeah, it's always more, you get more angry if it's someone sleeping next to you, you can't totally, it's hard to completely relax. But, I'm going to be fine, but it makes me a little nervous. (Yawn). My bed isn't huge.
CLIENT: (Sniffs).
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. As long as it's just more practical and I've had, I think, two girlfriends, Meredith and I think there was someone else maybe, who told me that like you know, if someone does snore really bad, you know, so that's made me kind of paranoid?
CLIENT: Well, that's fucking annoying. I mean, I can, you know, and that's you know. I mean it's just this practical thing, it's just, you know, shit like that is really annoying. Plus, it makes me paranoid that I have something, you know, that, oh, shit, I should do something absolutely bad in the air like I get all hypochondriac about it.
CLIENT: But, anyway I don't think it's any of that, I think it's more just, I just can't tell the nights I'm going to have some wacky dream in the night or not.
CLIENT: Yeah, that she'd know, or just for myself that like if I saw that I woke up at like three in the morning, you know, like what
CLIENT: Yeah, and that just kind of sucks, you know.
CLIENT: But whenever I (inaudible) I guess the good news is I haven't been having them that bad, even last night it wasn't, I didn't wake up from it or anything. I don't remember being scared in the dream, it was just like, it was just a lot of crazy, I just don't remember what the fuck it was, but (sniff) (clapping sounds x 5) (pause) (clapping x 4).
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right...
CLIENT: Right, right...
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think there was leaking (sniff) there was leaking, okay, all right there was one thing now I suddenly remember. There were lots of leaks in my apartment. (Sniff). Lots and lots of leaks and I was totally panicked about that. I was like why (chuckles) how is this possible? And either my parents or some parent figures...
CLIENT: Oh, shit! Now I remember something else, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, kind of. But, yes and no, kind of? And we were like totally making out and she was like saying all this stuff and one of them said something about Jewish people and I like totally like put him in his or her place. It was like what I'm not even fucking Jewish, like what the fuck you ta... it wasn't like, it wasn't one of those angry, like yelling, it was really more like I just kind of, it was even like half joking kind of because I'm not even Jewish, really. I still (chuckles) feel like that.
CLIENT: But yeah, damn, it's weird.
CLIENT: (Sniffs). And whoever this girl is, it was someone that I had been-oh, and also she lived somewhere up, because we took the bus, like she had to stop at Bank of America for some reason, but she lived up there for somewhere, I don't know.
CLIENT: But, yeah, the leak, yeah, that whole, my bedroom, and that this was my apartment, it definitely was my apartment. There was the, part of the ceiling was kind of caved in, there was water pouring everywhere.
CLIENT: Yeah, I just don't remember. I don't remember the transition, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, and the worse thing is I kind of see the girl in my mind. She wasn't like that her I remember, but (inaudible) didn't look like anyone I know or didn't ...
CLIENT: It's weird.
CLIENT: The only thing I can think and because for some reason my mind goes right there, so it must be some subconscious thing. There's a girl-no she's not she's a woman-but she, a girl that sang on my first record named Jennifer (sp?) ...
CLIENT: You mean like on Facebook or something like that?
CLIENT: So,, I don't know why but for some reason that she's, this girl didn't look anything like her, but I'm wondering if that's, you know ... I have no idea.
CLIENT: (inaudible) composite of different people or something. Oh, she had freckles, too. I remember that. And really blue eyes. Maybe it was Kelly (sp?), maybe, I don't know. Yeah? [00:10:48]
CLIENT: No, no, they were (cross talk) just open.
CLIENT: We were in this doorway, but I was like ‘what kind of doorway is this?'
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know who that third person was. I thought there was some third person.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: Maybe.
CLIENT: That's pushing it a little bit, that's, it could be. Yeah, as you remember, at one point in the dream I was like ‘I wonder if this guy wanted her' and I just, you know, stepped on his toes or I for whatever reason I got her. And I remember, I liked just thinking that (inaudible) who that was. [00:13:07]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: The only thing I thought was that the, about the making out, the people sitting around, whatever they were doing, was like in some ways it's as if it's in defiance of that. You know what I mean? Which I just could, it's like ‘all right if you're just going to sit there and be whatever, weird, or whatever is going to happen, I'm still going to, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: Oh, for that third ... (cross talk) that to me ...
CLIENT: I mean it just so doesn't bother me.
CLIENT: You know, maybe it's, I've done a lot of recording, so maybe I'm just kind of
CLIENT: Speaking of which, I think I have to look for another drummer. The (inaudible) at the meeting yesterday. The drummer cancelled again. So, I think he's a good kid but he always has an excuse. His car wasn't starting. He was sick. He was still in New York for Christmas or whatever. It's like, you know, you can't-if it was a small business it wouldn't matter if you had a lot of good excuses if you keep missing ...
CLIENT: ... you're missing. Even if we like you or whatever, you know.
CLIENT: (inaudible) [00:19:11]
CLIENT: The girl in the dream?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, she was really pretty and like, yeah. The tattoo was weird, though, because that's-those tattoos, not those tattoos, but where she had those tattoos is where this other girl had tattoos.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah it does.
CLIENT: That makes sense.
CLIENT: (Sniffs) Yeah. I don't know. Maybe it's also like (clears throat) with Kelly, like (clears throat) it's going like really well? So maybe there's definitely like still part of me that's still kind of-you know, think about it-I've gotten so used to being who I am and also like these relationships kind of coming and going and, you know, I'm sure it's a little part of me is like it's so nerve wracking that this is going so well, or something. You know what I mean? (Sniff).
CLIENT: (Flicking/thumping sound)
CLIENT: And also just the physical part. I mean I don't ...
CLIENT: ... really know anything about this girl.
CLIENT: ... there's no sexual (inaudible). [00:23:40]
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, definitely. Yeah. Maybe I'm just-maybe what I'm really talking about is, yeah, maybe it's fear. Because yeah, it doesn't feel bland, it feels good. So, maybe it's just fear of like ‘so, now what am I supposed to do?' or, what-you know what I mean? (thumping sounds). I mean, it sounds gay, but it's almost like now it's more existential, like a real existential question of life. It seems like, all right, it is nice, it feels good, but it also feels like ‘what exactly are we doing; what is this?'-or something like that-I don't know, it's hard to explain.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: No, no, no.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: No, I mean clearly I've been writing a lot of new songs that actually really like already way better than what...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: And I feel it's safe to parti (ph) to start writing again, you know, I don't know. But, yeah, it's just yeah, there's something about it that's definitely like you said, it's just unnerving. [00:29:49]
CLIENT: Or it's just some voice saying like ‘well, you don't deserve this, so this is not how things are supposed to go for you so we're going to make you feel like it's bland or something. You know what I mean, like ‘we're going to give you a negative connotation of it?' Yeah, because now that I think about it, when I'm in it, it doesn't feel bland. I'm happy that things are the way they are.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yup.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, at the end of the day that's one of the biggest, that's a major issue. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Well, also in a more pragmatic sense that let's say she were thinner, then there'd be something el-I think like a lot of people are able to get to that point where that's a never ending game-you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So. Yeah, when I think like that, that's what I've been fighting all these years, that I'm not like that, but have a little part of me in that ...
CLIENT: Well I have toward myself.
CLIENT: I don't.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, I know.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, I just have this weird...
CLIENT: Yeah, very strict.
CLIENT: Or, I mean, I don't think snoring is good. There is no way we can become a positive about snoring, but I get where you're, I mean, I get what you're saying.
CLIENT: But what you're saying is it's not a (pause) it's one thing if you've been married for 10, 20 years, and that's like a serious problem and now it kind of bothers you, but you're also concerned about the person's health. You know what I mean? But, when you're first dating somebody, yeah, it can't be, unless you're an asshole, it can't be the reason that you decide you don't want to be with somebody. Yeah, but in my mind it's just like a very vulnerable, kind of ugly, you know...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. See, like if she did joke that would hurt my feelings.
CLIENT: That would hurt my feelings. Yeah, yeah. That's a good example, yeah, if she brought it up somehow, I'd feel really like embarrassed and annoyed at myself. I'd immediately start hating myself and even if she was joking I would be like, now, she'd like-it would get really bad-like every joke has truth in it and she doesn't like it and then I'll imagine like, well other guys-it's crazy, man, like when Meredith told me I immediately assumed-I don't know, I don't know how to describe the weird cognitive dissonance, because I know that it's not true, but I was like, ‘oh, fuck, other guys don't snore.' Of course, they fucking, yeah, not all guys, not all peoples.
CLIENT: You know what I mean? (laughing)
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Okay. No problem.
CLIENT: Okay. Ah, Monday at 10?
CLIENT: Yeah I think Friday I didn't, yeah. How's it going?
CLIENT: (thumping) So...it was pretty good. Got the good stuff out of the way. I started exercising. I don't know what, you know, how do these things happen? I have no idea, like, first of all I missed the registration. Did I tell you I was going to run a half marathon?
CLIENT: Yeah, of course I missed the deadline to register because I was just kind of putting it off and whatever and I don't even think I looked at the website carefully, you know? I didn't know there were deadlines to register for fucking half marathon But anyway, or subconsciously maybe I was like "oh," maybe my self-conscious was telling me you probably won't be ready to run 13 fucking miles (laughs). Anyway, I don't know what happened. I checked it and for some reason the fact that I had missed the deadline or maybe it was before, I don't even know but I just felt this urge, I don't know what happened, like, I was already kind of wrapping up, I had already gotten those douchey, tight black compression things. I got one of those, whatever, I got myself a little beanie but, so that day I went I got these awesome running shoes that were really affordable like, on sale, these New Balance, they just felt so fucking good. [00:01:47] That was it, I ran outside and then I went to the gym so it's been that was...what's today? Three days ago.
CLIENT: Yeah it's kind of cool like suddenly...
CLIENT: I mean when the weather's been nice I have.
CLIENT: But I haven't been one of those...yeah, I like running outside but when it's nice, you know? It felt good, it was a little weird with the snow and ice but it did feel good, I mean you warm up fast and it felt very, you know.
CLIENT: Friday night. Well not night, whatever, evening. Saturday, Sunday...I didn't run outside and go to the gym all, each time, but yeah one time I went to the gym and one time, that first time I ran outside (laughs) and went to the gym.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, three in a row. Friday, Saturday, Sunday. [00:02:58]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think I just...
CLIENT: Something in me is like, I don't' know, just a switch was like, I don't know. Maybe it's just been a good, you know, my three friends are going to run this half marathon. I don't know what happened, something got me thinking about "yeah, that is kind of cool to do something like that," you know? And to be able to do it with friends. They had mentioned too, they're like "oh, you know, we do some long runs, we should do them together. You know, we all live right here. So maybe that sense of...I don't know. Maybe it was just the shoes, I have no idea, they felt so fucking and they look great (laughs). They were like socks, they're so awesome! I don't know, or maybe it's like with Kelly, I've been wanting to get into better....who the fuck knows, I don't know.[00:04:01] I think it's a combination of a lot of things but it just felt good. Then I got asked to be the first person to take part in this new series at the Assyrian library and museum.
CLIENT: I don't know if you know about this place, it's downtown?
CLIENT: Yeah and they're doing this new series called "Artists and Conversation". In February I'm going to do that...
CLIENT: Yeah, that will be cool.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, so it's cool and then the third good thing was, which was a weird coincidence, a friend of mine called me....Remember when I did that poetry thing?
CLIENT: There was that woman there, was older, was like a well-known poet, whatever. The acquaintance of mine put me on that panel saw that lady Layla, I guess yesterday, and she called me and we were just talking, she's like, "You know, I just wanted to tell you Layla..." she's like you're name came up and Layla said that she had read your book cover to cover and that... She said we were talking about how a lot of poets are kind of posers or, you know, they're just critics trying to be poets, or whatever and I guess this woman Layla was like "Brian's the real deal, that's a real poet." So she was like, "you should call her." [00:05:36] She could be very helpful.
CLIENT: She did, she did. Yeah and I don't know why I didn't pursue it. I never called her. I think now I will. For her to still remember that and say...So yeah. Kelly met Donnie and Lila, Friday night and that was really nice, we had a great time. Then we got home around one thirty in the morning, she saw on her phone that she had all these calls from her brother and text messages and she's like "that's really weird, why..." I guess some of the text messages were "You need to come home right now." So she calls her brother, we had just walked in, she still had her coat on or something. She calls her brother and she starts bawling so it turns out one of her dogs got hit and killed by a car. So it just became this surreal, I mean her knees buckled, it was just unbelievable, you know? [00:06:51] She's like "I'll come home, I'll be right home." So, there's really no problem to report in all this other than....
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because I'm trying to, acknowledge that I know I'm being good about, I know it's all in my head. First of all, I mean I couldn't believe I got so, I mean I kind of started crying too. I couldn't...I don't know, it just really broke my heart. She just...
CLIENT: Oh my god, yeah. And to be honest I've never seen anyone get like that over a pet. Do you know what I mean? You might as well have told her that, god forbid, her son was in the hospital or... I mean, she just...So I was like "Would you like me to drive you home? Are you okay?" She's like "no, no, I'll be okay." She'd be there or whatever. So I walked her out to her car, gave her a kiss and a hug. I told her I loved her. [00:08:13] Just cause, I felt like it.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah. But I wouldn't have, if that hadn't happened I don't know...I've gotten over throwing that word around, I don't do that but it just seemed right for that moment. Anyway so she left, I texted to make sure she got home safe, whatever. The next day I texted her to be like "Is there anything I can do? If you feel like having coffee I'll come there." Yesterday I checked in with her, whatever, she was like "thanks babe, I just need to be by myself, sitting on my deck doing some work. I hope you're having a good day," whatever. You're probably already fucking 20 steps ahead of me but my mind is already kind of like "something feels weird." Like why is she...I don't know. I just feel insecure now, like now I feel weird, you know? And also I kind of don't know what to do, did she mean I want to be by myself yesterday in that moment, like should I not check in with her today, you know what I mean? I don't know what...yesterday I felt like, I texted her "I totally understand, I miss you." Because I was at Starbucks I was so jittery on coffee I wrote, I just had a typo, it wasn't a big deal. I was like "Oops, pardon the typo, I'm hopped up on Starsucks," something like that. [00:10:00] That was it, you know. Now I just feel weird, there's a little unusual, she's kind of not getting back to me? Like Saturday too, like she didn't really get back to me.
CLIENT: I don't know.
CLIENT: Something, well no, I don't remember the sequence of events. I just know there's been long lags between, since this happened Friday. I'm trying to stop myself because I don't want to be a douche, the girl's dog died and she's a huge animal, I mean she has four pets, she's a huge animal, her dad was a vet. She is a big, big pet person. So I'm trying not to make it, it's just, I feel lame, I just...you know?
CLIENT: Yeah I just feel like she's being quiet and I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Well that would be the only thing. I don't know what else, everything's been great so I have no idea what else it could possibly be, you know what I mean? Everything was awesome. We had a great time at their house. During the week she was like "I miss you". So I think some of it is, as you go along you do have to continually adjust a little bit as you get to know someone better, you know what I mean? [00:11:42] She ain't the most, we text, but she's not the most kind of, I don't want to say communicative, I don't know. She's a little bit, I can't explain it, I don't know. She doesn't throw texts around a lot you know?
CLIENT: Yes, that's what it is! Yeah, yeah, she doesn't wear her heart on her sleeve to much. Maybe I just don't know what to do, like I'm sad but I miss her, I wish I could do something for her but I don't know. It's not like I know her apartment, she lives with her son and her brother, I don't know them yet so...you know what I mean? Part of me was like well I kind of know where she works I could just take flowers or send her flowers but for some reason I feel even weird about that. Probably because I'm fucking traumatized from Samantha telling me she doesn't like surprises at work. On fucking Valentine's Day (laughs). [00:12:52] I don't know what to do.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I know, I worried about that. I hope she would get that...
CLIENT: That she's out of here. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: I know.
CLIENT: I thought of it too as I was walking back up to my apartment, I was like "Son of a bitch" but I figured she's a smart girl I would think that she would think "that's so sweet", like "I was in such a bad state." [00:14:01] That's what I said, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah. She's, that's what I'm saying, now I feel like, if you're right my girlfriend, who...Oh that's the other thing by the way. I don't know if I talked about this but I kind of floated that out there, like that she's, you know? We're not just dating, she's my girlfriend because I've been very, it's been since October, I mean other people would be calling them their girlfriend two weeks into it. I'm the one also being, not reserved but I just, so maybe we're both being...The funny thing is I think there's absolutely nothing here, I think it's a girl who fucking lost, she was putting pictures of her on Facebook, I mean she's really devastated. [00:15:14]
CLIENT: Combination, you know, whatever.
CLIENT: She feels really vulnerable maybe or...
CLIENT: Well I think it would've been totally different, if I knew her son, if I'd been to their house, I think she would have been like "yeah, drive me home or can you come with me?" I think, you know what I mean, and I totally understand that. That would be weird to meet her son and brother during a time like that.
CLIENT: I think its 99.9 percent...
CLIENT: My typical, the commentator, trying to find "oh just because it didn't go like, perfectly, go to your friends house, go home, have sex, be together, wake up in the morning, she kisses you goodbye, it was great." Just because there was wrench in the works that part of me is like "maybe this means something else." The thing I don't know what to do is like do I text her today just to check in? Do I just leave her alone? You know what I mean? Like I don't know what to do.
CLIENT: I feel like if she's that sad and that, I feel weird to not to text, I feel weird not to check in but then I feel like if I check in again and she doesn't get back to me again for a long time I'm going to be...I know your dog...[00:17:06]
CLIENT: Yeah I know your dog died but I'm not sure what that has to do with communication.
CLIENT: I don't know. Part of me is like "don't text her all day until night time." I could just be like "hope your day was okay. I'm thinking about you." I don't know or don't text her. I have no idea. You know what I mean though? It's a weird place to, because if we're at that place then that would be one of "wow, where's Brian, like where's your boyfriend. Didn't he...he didn't touch base with you today to see how you're doing?" I don't know, like I don't know what I'm supposed to do.
CLIENT: For example it's kind of funny but we don't talk on the phone. Which these days isn't unusual but...[00:18:28]
CLIENT: Not anymore, kind of. I think it would get to the point where yeah you maybe call each other but that's where we are. These days it's just, I think people like to avoid any, yeah, probably intimacy and any possibility of awkwardness or...you know what I mean? When you're still in that honeymoon phase or whatever. If you're talking and suddenly you don't know what to talk about...I hate the phone, I totally, actually understand that. I never know when I should hang up or if I should kind of keep it going or if we're just talking about trivial, the weather. I don't know like the phone sometimes makes people...and I think we're gotten to that point. I don't think it used to be that way but I think over time that's just what's happened. I don't know...There's a part of me, it's weird, there's a part of me that's like "brace yourself in case..."(laughs) It's like totally catastrophizing like...
CLIENT: I have no idea. In case this is somehow, like it's those old like "in case this is your fate." This is not supposed to happen, something good like this. So see? Dog dies, sets off a chain reaction, she realizes she's really not that into you, you said you love her that was a mistake...like who knows? I don't know, but it's all this negative, catastrophizing stuff. [00:20:11] On the up side, I guess in a way it's good that I'm able to even think the worst and I'm okay, I guess. I don't know. (pause) It's hard to trust yourself when you have crazy voices, do you know what I mean? That's the problem here. It's always been the problem Like right now, all that's happening here is she doesn't wear her heart on her sleeve as much and she's probably cautious. She has a fucking son and her dog died. She's, you know, she has things to be protective of and she's a girl and she's beautiful. Who knows what the hell kind of relationships. She's been divorced, who knows what kind of...do you know what I mean? So I know that everything's fine probably and yet it's a little tough to feel completely fine. [00:21:27] (pause) Think the best thing to do is not to text her. Just because, you know what, I mean she saw my reaction when we were together, she saw my reaction and how emotional I got, I told her I loved her, I would drive her home, I checked in with her "do you need anything". Maybe it's let her miss me a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I don't want to...it just sucks that. That's the part of relationships I don't like but it's the necessary...it's not game playing but just you got to...(pause) Anyways, meanwhile the records done and it sounds fucking amazing. It sounds unfuckingbelieveable. It sounds unfuckingbelieveable. We have to tweak, just like minor, minor, like minor but...Oh and this is the other thing. She's going to do the artwork for the record.
CLIENT: Yeah and now I can't, you know I really need that to get done and she's...you know? I don't know what to do about that because if I say, I feel like I can't bring it up now but I need to do it. [00:23:02] I'm thinking of just having someone else do it but then I don't know. "Look, I just felt like on top of being very busy, you're going through something very difficult, it's not that big..." I don't know.
CLIENT: I mean, like yeah, five years ago. I mean we're done let's just fucking finish this fucking thing. The Pixar thing ended in October. It's fine, it's not like people, there's a mutiny or something but I just don't like that. People went out of their way. I understand a little of a delay but come on it should be done. I want to be done. (pause) And also how long do I wait? Like now I don't know what to do. Do I wait until the end of the week and say "oh by the way." Also because she hasn't brought it up so I also feel kind of weird, I mean in some ways I feel like "why the fuck hasn't she mentioned this fucking..." (laughs). This is important. I don't know. She's definitely a little bit not heart on the sleeve as much and she's got a weird combination of super thoughtful and nice but also maybe it's the same thing. Not heart on the sleeve, I don't know. She doesn't seem flighty. She seems like she's on top of her shit. I don't know if it's just that she's so busy and there's so much going on? Maybe, I don't know. (thumping) [00:25:02]
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah that's what I was thinking like towards the end of the week just being like "it's totally okay, I totally understand."
CLIENT: When this kind of thing happens like how, it kind of seems like almost losing a human.
CLIENT: Is that kind of common for people that are very...?
CLIENT: Loyal and all that stuff.
CLIENT: What do you do? I kind of don't know what to do. It's like...(pause) I think the other thing is I can't help it but there is a little part of me, it's a small part but there's a part of me that's like "seems kind of weird, it's a dog." I don't mean like get over it but...Yesterday I was like "oh maybe I should get her a copy of A Grief Observed, it's a really good book. But I'm like what am I talking about, maybe I should (laughs). I just don't know what to do.
CLIENT: Ah. What do you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah because I'm scared, I have an irrational fear that something somehow because her dog died, which now that I say these things out loud makes no fucking sense to me, but somehow because her dog died I've some irrational fear and that she's in super grief, I have some irrational fear that somehow I'm losing her or something.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. [00:27:33] That's what I'm saying. That sounds insane. That's why the best thing to do is to do nothing.
CLIENT: (pause, tapping).
CLIENT: No, no, no, you're probably right. I mean it's a dog and she has a child. Who knows what the history is with the dog? Maybe....
CLIENT: Yeah dogs, especially if it hit her that hard that means she's had that dog for awhile so maybe they had it when she was married, when her son was a baby...Absolutely, absolutely. And now she's in this weird place because she has me but I don't know her, I can't really be there be there, it would be awkward to...[00:29:13]
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what I mean when I say everything's fine. I don't mean..
CLIENT: Whoop de doo. I just mean that everything's fine in the sense that whatever this irrational fear is, is irrational.
CLIENT: That should be crazy. That would be psychotic if your dog dies and you're like "let's see, two plus two equals fifteen so I don't like you anymore." That doesn't make any...I guess the problem is there's still that part of me that like, when these things happen, it's like you said, I start feeling vulnerable, so it's like wait, am I, did I, should I not have texted her? Again, who doesn't fucking text their girlfriend? People would call, you know what I mean? So that's all fine, I just think it's...Yeah, it's all good. [00:30:17]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right, which is her stuff. That has nothing to do with our relationship.
CLIENT: (pause) Meanwhile I went to a, for the first time, I went to a, my mom has these very close friends, these Assyrian ladies, who are actually very distant cousins of my mom's and they're really amazing. They're like sisters to her. But I never really go their house or their family's and for some reason this time I was like "you know, I never do, why not, go with my mom." It was fine. [00:31:24] There were a lot of people there and they were all very excited to see me. It was very nice, they are very lovely people but I noticed what I don't like, I don't really know what I noticed but I just feel like it's hard, I didn't talk much, they really asked me...It was very, these are like simple people, you know what I mean? It just reminded me of why I definitely want, not expand my circle but I want to make sure I don't get stuck with just a couple of friends and then situations like that....Other than my mom I had no reason to be there. They're lovely people but...
CLIENT: My mom's generation but their, some of their son's were there.
CLIENT: They're very nice but...[00:32:29]
CLIENT: I just mean super, yeah, super conventional, nothing interesting, nothing going on there.
CLIENT: My kind of people in the sense that they're very sweet and I'm glad my mom has them, I just, you know? I don't know why I thought of that, I just...
CLIENT: I don't know because my mom's always watered herself down. I mean she has to water herself down too with people like that. Those ladies are super awesome but my mom can take people like that out of her pocket intellectually. She's watered, dumbed herself down all these years just because that's what she's had to do. What, are you not gonna have friends? Especially because she hasn't really assimilated so in the Assyrian community, especially for a woman...so yeah. I feel like maybe I haven't been challenging myself enough to expand my circle with more kind of stimulating...I don't do any writer's stuff, you know what I mean? I don't put myself out there. Mostly because that stuff is douchy too, I think I might have to somehow....[00:34:08]
CLIENT: They're all awesome. A lot of my friends are great but more and more I'm noticing that I just...it's not that I don't want to be friends with them but I think I also need some more stimulating, something else. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like in a way I'm dumbing myself down too. I feel like if you challenge yourself with the people you associate with, you're raising you're level up, it challenges you to be better at whatever skills you have, you know what I mean? So I feel like in a way I'm not doing my talents a service by not doing anything, I mean I don' t do a god damn thing, I don't do any readings, I don't....I think I have to start working on that. [00:35:16] (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know, I have no idea. I mean when they asked me to do this thing at the museum and when I was talking to her and sending my bio I was like "what is going on here?" Like even I was taken aback, I hadn't looked at my bio in awhile. I was like "what the fuck?" (laughs) I should be doing...are you kidding me? I don't know. Or when I was at the museum talking to the curator or whatever, the director, I could hear myself "I feel totally comfortable, I know what the fuck I'm talking about, I'm don't feel any sense of I don't deserve to to be..." I mean, this is a joke, you know? The problem is then I go to poetry readings and I'm like "these fucking assholes." (laughs) They're just pretentious, a lot of the poetry sucks, they're people that think they know everything. And I just feel like I just want to call my friend Matthew and have a beer. It's hard for me to (pause). But that's not an excuse anymore I think. That's like saying I love my job but just because there are a couple of people at work that are annoying me that I'm not going to do this job anymore. That doesn't make sense. [00:36:43]
CLIENT: Ultimately the problem, not the problem but what I think it is, is that if you do all those things that means I'll probably do well and that means that I'll have more emotions, you know what I mean? I think the more, the better I've done stuff, it makes me realize how sad I am, like wow, it starts making me feel like shit. I could've been doing this stuff thirty, I mean ten years ago, you know? So I think there's some of that. It's not anymore that "oh I don't deserve to be here." It's more that when I'm there I start feeling a little surreal like I'm comfortable and yet this is so crazy I feel like I should've been doing this for the last fifteen years. I think that...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Now of course the other end of that is "Jesus Christ, what the fuck, you're forty, it's not like you're..." (laughs). You know what I mean? Especially in writing terms, that's, you know. So I don't know, I think there's definitely, it's not that these people are all douchey it's just that I think...also fear of, you know, like what if down the road I can't write another book, you know what I mean? Maybe some of that, I don't know.
CLIENT: And somehow I don't deserve to do well or you know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like you don't want to deal with...
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:39:45]
CLIENT: But I think what's happening is cause I've been feeling so much better, so now, like I'm thinking of that stuff here but when I was talking to the director or whatever I didn't really think that stuff, or even if I did it just a passing, I probably wouldn't have done great fifteen years ago, you know what I mean? I was also a different person, shy and kind of whatever. At the end what does that stuff mean anyway? Big whoop de doo, I would've had three books a poetry, in a way, I mean I'm not the type to measure success by those, that's not my thing. I think it's more, the grief's not about that it's more about family not pushing me or that sort of thing.
CLIENT: But that's why it will be great to do this fucking thing cause hopefully they'll come, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm sure my uncle, I'm sure a number of them will be there. Yeah, yeah, it's not that they're not proud. They'll be there. But it will be nice for them to see, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Recognition and hear me articulate, you know stuff I have to say that kind of has to do with them and the whole Assyrian community. [00:41:11] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah it's pretty exciting. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's weird, I know, I know. It's kind of like there's no excuse anymore, it's kind of like the running thing or going to the gym. It's kind of, I think something's starting to finally, in all these areas, it's really...I mean you don't have to deal with people when you send your poems out, you know what I mean? I don't get it, I don't understand. So I think that's all started to give way. [00:42:24] (pause) [00:43:25]
CLIENT: You said you were taking a day or two.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: You said like the 18th or something.
CLIENT: You did, you did.
CLIENT: So Thursday at 12:50?
CLIENT: Cool. Thanks.
CLIENT: Yeah got a dry cough. It's going around, this year is just...
CLIENT: Insane. I'm actually lucky I think it's just I'm kind of, so far at least. But yeah, I can't believe it, how sick people have been.
CLIENT: Yeah, I read in the Globe 700 people died. Like "what the fuck." Weird. But it was interesting, I was driving over here and I was like, I've always hated how I, there's something about being sick like, I get aggravated and I get more negative, you know? On my here I was like "what is the big deal? Why do I do that? Yeah I'm sick but I'm not..." Thank god I don't have the flu or I'm not super stuffed up, I have a dry cough and I feel kind of achy but I'll go grab some Mucinex and I'll be...I don't know. I was just thinking about it on my over here. Like tonight we have practice and I was like aggravated, I'm like "what the fuck?" I'm not going to cancel practice. [00:01:19] The drummer's been cancelling and I want to have some consistency but, then I was like "why am I even thinking about this that much?" I have a cold, whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. And yesterday I was like "oh I'm going to see Kelly Saturday I better not be fucking sick. That will suck." I just get all wrapped up in stuff, lots of people, pretty much everybody I guess this year, you know, has a cold, they deal with it, they go out if they have to go out or whatever. There's nothing to get that worked up about.
CLIENT: Just because we see each other like once a week. So, you know, I don't want to be off, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Just that I might not be able to have as much fun or I won't be able to...I'll be tired or you know, just feel yucky.
CLIENT: No, that's the thing I thought if I feel worse then I mean I'd probably tell her "listen I don't want you to get sick, you're more than welcome to hang out but..." What's the big deal, do you know what I mean? It's just I've always had this sickness, I just get aggravated, there's something about it. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah of course, for anybody.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:03:32] I guess it's just that feeling of like, I don't know, I don't know what to do maybe it's partly like (pause) maybe it's a manifestation of the emotional feelings of being like anxious and annoyed and the stuff I've historically felt. Maybe when I'm sick I feel like that's a physical, you know what I mean? Just feeling grumpy and yucky, like I stopped at Dunkin, you feel kind of woozy when you're sick, kind of just out of it. So I'm not really, that's partly what I hate about it. You feel kind of stuck, "it's a beautiful day wish I was getting shit done but I'm not because this thing is holding me back." I don't know.
CLIENT: It's a weakness I guess in a way, you just feel weak. Physically but also, you know? It also could be I don't really get that sick. I haven't had the flu in I don't know how long, you know? I usually get something like this maybe like once a year maybe. This is fucking twice now. So it also could be that. Some people just get sick, you know what I mean? They know that once, a certain month or whatever they're going to get sinus infections or whatever the fuck they get. [00:05:03] Maybe with me when I get sick I just get aggravated because I don't really get sick. I don't know.
CLIENT: Emotionally and mentally yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right. That's why I think it was good that I was thinking about it on the way here. I was like "What's the big fucking deal, I'm going to get some Mucinex and alright so we have practice, I'll just take it easy and I'm not going to go out afterwards for a beer I'm just going to hang out and have my coffee or tea, whatever, we'll play for an hour and I'll go home." Things tend to just become a big deal, you know what I mean? I just don't, I don't like that so I'm glad I was able to start seeing that maybe. [00:06:20]
CLIENT: (coughs) Right. Yeah some of it is too that I'm going to be judged for...
CLIENT: I don't know. Just being weak I guess, I mean it's ridiculous, I don't really know.
CLIENT: I mean it's not really...the fear is I'm judging myself, it's not...you know? It's nonsense. It's just me judging myself.
CLIENT: Probably just family, you know. Remember I was telling you, my mom, they're always like "how'd you get a cold?" They always have that thing so maybe it's partly that or just the fact that they do nitpick. [00:07:39] My mom did, I had this pimple right here and my mom did it again, she was like, she didn't do it the way she used to do it but she was like "Honey you can put some vitamin E on that, it'll..." It's just they pick up on little things even if they're trying to help you, they're like "oh that sucks, you can put some..." Still it's like who cares, why are you even...They can't get away from that, you know, they did it to my uncle the other day. The guy came over, he looked like death warmed over, he just looked like a broken man, alright and that annoys me too. I don't understand how someone that's become so successful business wise can't take care of himself. I find that very odd, you know? My mom's like yelling at him and my grandmother of course is like "Sell your house, let's move to Assyria." She'll say random shit, you know, and I was like "just relax, you're not helping him by kind of scolding him. He's tired, he's exhausted, obviously he knows." But they just have this thing where...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: That's it, yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, no it's very strange.
CLIENT: Right, right. It's very strange, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just their thing, like you're being singled out. Like the universe is singling you out for this flaw, you know? Now of course the other side of that, including my uncle, he's not like them, he's much more, my uncle's very mellow, he's like "I came here and I'm not complaining to you guys." And then again suddenly my mother's very healthy, like they just go back and forth. I was like "no, that's good, at least you're talking about it and you're not keeping it in, that's not healthy, it's good, blah blah blah." But even with my uncle who has a much better attitude it's still, he still has this thing where, I don't know if it's like a self-sacrificing thing or a martyring thing, you know what I mean? [00:10:27] It's just, it doesn't make sense. There's something whacky in the hard wiring, you know what I mean? People that do, it's not like my uncle's a billionaire but they're comfortable so how, I don't understand, like usually that's...Isn't that the point, when you get that comfortable of course you're stressed, he has all that shit going on but those are the people that will take a long lunch, they'll get a massage once a week, you know what I mean? Isn't that the point? Just like his wife dies, that's the amazing thing, his wife who's the head doctor of her fucking clinic, somehow finds the time. I don't know, with their side, even my uncle has a much better attitude, he's much more...I don't know what that is. I don't understand it. Staying up all hours of the night because he had to research zoning laws or whatever. It's like "did you really? That doesn't sound right? You're a big time business guy staying up until four in the morning?" I don't know...It's one thing if you do that once in a while but it's like every fucking time he's ironing the kids clothing, he's not sleeping. [00:11:56] So even in a way they're all different, they all have this similar pattern.
CLIENT: That's right. So yesterday his whole thing was all these workers, they just don't care. It's not their building, they don't care. So they dinged this and he's right. That is true but it's like, I mean, just is it that big...?" I even told him "uncle how about just finish the building and those minor things, just touch them up? Just be done with the whole thing. I'm not even a real estate developer. It just seems like a no-brainer to me, you just want to be done. That's always going to happen. There's going to be some painter who drips some paint on the floor. He was just so worked up about that. I was like "dude..." [00:12:58] Then my mom "it's sabotage!"
CLIENT: That's sabotage! "You have to be careful. These construction people, you know, they're not as educated and they're jealous because you're successful and...I don't know. Went on a tangent. It was hilarious which only in turn riles up my grandmother, you know? (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. Nothing is ever light hearted. And in the middle of all that they were talking, of course they were talking geo-politics, you know what I mean? There was that conversation then there was Turkey and NATO and Assyria and what's going on in Syria. It's like "dude, I don't know what to tell you. I care passionately about these things but I know enough to know that you can't, there's always going to be something in the world, there's always going to be, that can't be the main conversation. [00:14:19] So it's like they're burdening themselves with shit they have no control over. That's pointless. (pause)
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm so grateful that I don't like, I'm glad I have my dad's side. I don't tell...I talked to Kelly last night "Yeah, I'm sick..." I didn't say anything, there's no reason to say anything. Yeah, I've got a cold, you know if I have the flu I would let her know that I have the flu but there's no reason. It's like they use, it's always a negativity that gets the banner headline, do you know what I mean? It's like "alright, you got a cold." That's not, if you're with people you care about that's what there is to talk about? It was ironic yesterday when my uncle, as he was going down the stairs, he was all hunched over, all fucked up and as he's walking I hear him say in Assyrian "How are you doing honey? Are you okay?"
CLIENT: Yeah. It's always and they tend to do this...they ask how I'm doing and somehow they remember I guess that "oh I just been talking about my..." It's very sweet but it's so ironic, it's like...
CLIENT: Yeah and what am I going to say? I was like "I'm good uncle, just juggling a lot of things." What am I going to say? It's just hilarious.
CLIENT: Well, I know it's not hilarious, but you know what I mean? It's just very ironic.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Some of that might be, I was thinking about that. Some of that might be my mythologizing him a little bit. I mean, it wasn't that he wasn't a talker it's just that he wouldn't dwell. If he had a cold "yep, I have a cold.": It was fine. It's not like he would keep things a secret per se, some things he might but he just didn't like things like that to be such topics of conversation. {00:17:33] You know what I mean?
CLIENT: On my dad's side there is.
CLIENT: Like when I visit them, yeah it's totally normal.
CLIENT: They'll say "I'm sorry" and then they'll be like, my 89 year old aunt will be like "have a cigarette, that'll take care of it." Like they have that hearty just kind of...and I don't think about it. When you're with family like that, you're like...
CLIENT: Also because I'm like that so it doesn't even cross my mind anymore, you know what I mean? [00:18:26] Then of course, things have a way of, you just feel better. It's weird how you just start feeling better. But when things are like "wait, you have a cold, alright I'm going to make you a yogurt and garlic and are you drinking lemon, are you eating oranges, are you..." Everything is like, that's sweet, yes you should do all those things but you're not an idiot. It's like it's not a big deal. They just have that, you know?"
CLIENT: Yeah anxiety.
CLIENT: You're the doctor, I don't know what you call it.
CLIENT: But I went to that family...Remember I told you I went to that family's house? I went with my mom? She'd make a big deal out of it but she kind of said something when we got there. She said, I didn't hear what she said I just heard their reaction. She said something like, I was wearing jeans, I had a collared shirt but I was wearing jeans. She must have said something cause they're like "who cares, the guys are wearing jeans." I don't know what she said but it was probably something like "oh we came kind of casual..." basically talking about me. [00:19:47] That's such an oddball, it's so odd, I don't think, they don't understand how odd that is. Who announces, I mean, talk about yourself I don't give a shit, but to speak up for a forty year old guy who looks perfectly fine, that's a deep level of something. I don't know what the fuck that is.
CLIENT: But see luckily, first of all I didn't care, it didn't bother me at all. I knew something that...I already told her in the car, I was like "I'm telling you, like try to fucking control yourself. Don't, when they ask me something don't fucking speak for me, don't get involved, don't interject shit."
CLIENT: I had to. At this point I have to because it drives me insane and I told her "this is why I don't go with you anymore. Because you kind of tell white lies." She'll tell them things like "Yeah, he, it's kind of not like [inaudible]." She has this thing, she wants to feel, I don't know, I don't know what the fuck it is. I was like "Do you understand we're going to people's houses who are lovely, lovely people, very sweet people, but I can take fifty of them out of my pocket. I don't need, like do you understand how above them, even you are? Forget me, that you are? I don't mean above them like you're a better person, but intellectually, sophisticatedly, whatever, why would you think you're lesser?" She'll just think nothing but just to make a point to her that I have nothing to talk, we're going to talk about nonsense, they're going to have no idea what I do but I don't mind that, you mind that. I can sit there, I had whiskey with the older dudes, like in their sixties, I love that shit! I just want to hear their stupid fucking stories, they joke around, they say things that don't make any sense but I don't care. To me it's kind of like I'm hanging out with my dad, like these were my dad's friends. So it doesn't bother me but I'm also not going to feel like I need to impress anybody, you know? [00:22:10] She doesn't get that. She's such an intellectual, those Assyrian ladies, she could fucking wipe the floor with them with her knowledge, you know? Somehow, I don't know what it is.
CLIENT: Well when I say it she knows it. She'll be like "oh I know honey. I know, you're right, you're right."
CLIENT: That's right.
CLIENT: Well she does and she doesn't. She apologizes but then if something comes up, some topic, she fucking throws down. She'll be like "Well actually no, in 1922 blah blah blah..." It's this weird schizo, it's as if she thinks their kids are somehow more, maybe she just can't handle that they're just more conventional and that's just what she wants. I don't know, I don't know what it is. (pause)
CLIENT: Somehow, yeah. It's a little better, like I overheard her at the table, she's like "You know it's not the only thing you guys? He's a really good song writer, he's a writer..." So you know, she's come around a little bit but yeah there's this, yeah...(pause) [00:23:44] I mean what matters to me is that is that it didn't bother me, you know, that's, you can't' change people after a certain age. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think the problem now is that, now it bothers me in the sense that I'm embarrassed for her. Do you know what I mean? And she doesn't understand that stuff like that reflects on me in a way, like there's no reason not to just hold your head up high and just be who you are and she doesn't understand that that...There's a saying in Assyria (foreign), it's like, kind of like pitiful and on fire. Strange saying but...That you're just kind of like "oh, yeah, we didn't dress right..." It's just an awful, awful way, it's embarrassing not to mention it's a little bit immodest. Some people could take that as "why are you so?" I don't know if her friends do...
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah like I don't know if some of her friends, I'm sure her lady friends, I'm sure, this whole...she's just...[00:25:15]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I'll say something like "Mom, don't act, like there's no reason to act that way." Or Persian is another good one. It means like raggedy, not even raggedy, like just pitiful and raggedy and meek. There's no reason...It's funny that they have those sayings, it's interesting where they, like I wonder if that was a post-genocide thing that became more expressions that way or, I don't know.
CLIENT: Right, right, like bristling.
CLIENT: Yeah it's very common. They'll even, I have noticed the older people, like my mom, they'll use it to describe all of us so when they are talking about politics "We Assyrians, we've always been..." so that's why Turkey and all these big powers can toy with us because we don't, we've never declared war, we've never committed, we've never instigated any awful violence in that part of the world. I do see the irony in that, in that part of the world that doesn't really work so it's a bit of a miracle that we even still exist but it's become a kind of mindset that we're like sheep and we just kind of...
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: No, no, no. Everybody.
CLIENT: We don't stand up for ourselves, how did all these things happen to us throughout history, we didn't have a strong army, why didn't we...whatever, I don't know. [00:27:44] They just constantly find ways to use that expression about Assyrians.
CLIENT: (foreign)
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: No. Nope. (pause) It's definitely cultural, like a collective insecurity unless you live in Assyria. And that's the other thing, it's like they have all these...it's like "Dude, do you think the people in Assyria are sitting around talking about this shit all day?" They live there, that's just...you know what I mean? There isn't this "what's going on in Assyria?" They are Assyrians, living in Assyria so they're just living their lives and that's very different. You see that when you meet Assyrians from Assyria. They don't fucking have these conversations because they're living it. There's no reason to talk about, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's the Western Assyrians because of the genocide and they were just driven all over the world and there's this longing and this like...complex. [00:29:43] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah it's like extreme judgment.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's more just because I think it's gross, it grosses me out to do it in front of other people. But yes, you're right, I know what you mean. [00:30:50] Like to even give it that much thought is...
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like everything, I don't know if this is the right way to use it, but everything becomes like meta, do you know what I mean? Who thinks about blowing their nose? People just blow their nose. And I think that's the very thing that annoys me about it, which is the funny thing. Like if I'm at the coffee shop and the guy down the counter is just blowing his nose, there's something, I know he's not thinking, he's not doing it on purpose to annoy me, the guys got to blow his nose. It bothers me that it's not bothering him. There's something about that, that's like kind of gross and that people are able to do those kind of things without even a second thought. For some reason it just bothers me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right. [00:32:03] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:33:55] [00:35:07] It's funny cause I've been wondering too if like, it's not the reason I'm sick but maybe this feeling of like finishing this record and moving on, you know, makes me feel somehow anxious or just something, I don't know. To have worked on something for so long, ridiculously long and now for it to just be done. I think there's something about that. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I think deep down part of me tries to find ways to make it not a big deal or to feel like "oh, it's not really going to matter...." Do you know what I mean, like, that it's not going to be as good as I think it is or that...I don't know how to explain it. [00:36:34] (pause) I guess just the part that's very uncomfortable with things being completed and going well and going to some other level, you know what I mean? Out of the comfort zone of feeling like shit.
CLIENT: Okay, cool. Ten? Eleven?
CLIENT: Awesome. Thanks Tricia.
CLIENT: (sighs). How's it going? Nice. So I had this dream last night that I was with this little boy and we were going to like, we were at a like Sear's or Target or Wal-Mart, places like that and I have no idea who he was, his name, he had some long name. (coughs) He wanted me to call him Brandon and I bought him this rubber ball, it was black, kind of like you would use for stick ball and when I went to pay for it the woman was like, it was like $25.39 and I was like "That's clearly not right." It's like this weird thing, I had this whole exchange with the cashier and I just pulled out a five and was like "this is what I'm going to give you for this ball, there's no way it's more, it's probably a lot less. I'm going to give you five bucks." She was like "Yeah, I guess that's okay." It was weird; I'm just saying that because I don't want to forget. [00:01:45]
CLIENT: It was very strange.
CLIENT: Yeah it was a strange dream.
CLIENT: Yeah and the kid had this long, Brandon, Eric, whatever, he had this long name just like a cute little white kid.
CLIENT: I think even in the dream I was like, this is weird, why is this kid with me? And yet I wasn't super shocked, it was weird.
CLIENT: No but it did feel like I was in charge of him, he was in my care or something.
CLIENT: No idea. (pause) I mean it could be symbolic, maybe it's my CD, you know? It's my...
CLIENT: Yeah. Or the band. I was thinking, I went to practice yesterday because I wasn't going to fucking cancel it, because the drummer's been cancelling a lot, so it was on my mind. We talked about it after practice. I was like "You know what? I think I need to try out other drummer's. I need to take control, it's my band, it's my record." He's a good guy but something's not, something's off. He comes to practice and then he's out of there. [00:03:29] You know what it mean? So I don't think, it's not that he's not into it, I think he's probably just scattery, you know? I think when he's not at practice he doesn't think about this band at all because he's doing other projects and that's fine but it's not working. I just, he doesn't hang out with us, he's inscrutable, we can't figure this kid out at all. And that's saying a lot. I'm pretty fucking inscrutable and like I cannot figure him out at all. So maybe that was all in my mind...the CD coming out. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know what else it would be, I thought "Oh is it Kelly's kid?" But that doesn't make sense. Or is it like me, I'm with myself? Probably a combination of all those things. [00:04:44]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, you know and I told the guys "it's not fair to you either, you guys have lives but you show up and you care, you look forward to this, you want, you're into it." It's not that Luke's not into he just a little bit like mercenary or something. Like he's like "So do we have any shows lined up?" I was like "Well, I'm working on it and tentatively..." He was like " So basically from now until then we're just working on new stuff?" It's like "Dude, we're a band." You show up and you practice. Like what are you trying to say?
CLIENT: Well how could it be? It's not like he's getting paid.
CLIENT: That's what I don't get like if you're not into it then...I think that he's 24 and he really wants to do music as a living, so I think he's cast a wide net. [00:06:23] It's not that he doesn't like the songs, he likes the song, when we're playing he's into it. The problem is that's not enough in a way, like there's no forethought, he just shows up, we practice and there's no...
CLIENT: Yeah and I think we all feel that, it shows in his drumming. It's just that I think he's...it's not so much that it's a job but yeah it is a little bit like " I'm going to try all these different things and maybe one or two will pan out." And for all of us, we don't look at it that way.
CLIENT: Yeah, and we look at it like "We just really enjoy this and if something happens that's great." I look at it as "This is just what I do." Whether I make a lot of money at it, I don't know but I will just continue to keep doing this. I think Luke maybe, he's 24, I don't know, maybe he doesn't have that. [00:07:32] (pause) But it was cool to, I mean my voice got shot but it was cool to play. I hadn't played with a fucking drummer in over a month so it sounded good for the most part. (coughs) (pause) [00:08:33]
CLIENT: I don't know, it's weird. I guess I just have a shitty cold.
CLIENT: My nose isn't really that stuffed up, like I don't have a runny nose or anything, just fucking cough.
CLIENT: I don't think so, don't think so. I was supposed to go out tonight but I don't think I am, I think I should just...I'd like to but then I know myself, I'll get restless later cause I've been home all day but I think I need to just kind of, it's not going to help.
CLIENT: Yeah. And also I just don't want it to get worse and I don't want to get other people sick. (pause) [00:09:42]
CLIENT: It was like $25 and something cents.
CLIENT: I have no idea. It was very specific. I kind of didn't like that the ball was black, I wish it wasn't black.
CLIENT: It's like black and white aren't good colors to see in dreams they say.
CLIENT: Well like superstitious people, you know? Yeah I don't know why I saw that, why it was that number, it was weird. (pause, coughs) [00:10:53]
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: (frequent coughing) Man I hate this. I haven't had a cough in years.
CLIENT: I hate it.
CLIENT: When it's like this, no. It just, I think you can tell when it's, if I felt like I had a fever or if my body's all in pain...
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I don't have a problem with going to the doctor, I actually thought about it today but I was like go and say what? I have a sore throat and a cough? I'm taking Mucinex, I don't know, I'm drinking tea, I'm doing all the stuff you're supposed to do. [00:13:21] (coughing) (pause)
CLIENT: Mm hm. (pause) Or that the ball is just like, the ball is the sadness, you know, that's why it's black. It's like the...(pause) It didn't seem like that in the dream but I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah cause why would you buy a black ball for a little boy? (pause)
CLIENT: Not really just because it's not like I consider, he doesn't' really even hang out with us.
CLIENT: Yeah, I haven't had a chance to really invest as a friend.
CLIENT: And also because I try to above, I don't want to be petty about it, I think he's into it. When he plays, he's into it, he's just not, you know? I don't take it personally. [00:15:50] (pause)
CLIENT: The what?
CLIENT: Oh, no I meant if the kid was me.
CLIENT: Yeah. That just represents all these years of like carrying around this black ball, you know? (pause) [00:17:00] [00:18:01] It's weird when you're sick, it's like it goes hand in hand, like it's hard, it makes you more melancholy than you are because you're (coughs), you know what I mean? If I wasn't sick right now, I'd feel, you know, but because I'm sick it's making me like...
CLIENT: Isn't that like? Isn't it like that for a lot of people? When they're sick they don't feel more down or something?
CLIENT: Really? How interesting.
CLIENT: (coughs) Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. Yeah that's true. (pause) I guess it's probably that, especially at this, I haven't had a cough in so long, maybe it just like reminds me of when I was a kid, you know, being all smothered and it becoming a big deal, you know what I mean? [00:20:23]
CLIENT: (coughing) Just you know, like I said just too much attention being paid to like "Why are you sick, how did you get sick? It's because you left the house without a hat." Like everything is kind of either your fault or you're being singled out somehow. And then just non-stop remedies like rubbing vinegar on your chest, fucking honey, garlic, just non-stop...Yeah, I don't know.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: Right. [00:21:41] (pause)
CLIENT: (coughs) Sorry.
CLIENT: I mean I'm sure a lot of that stuff helped but it's just smothering.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was treated to much like a major crisis, you know what I mean, instead of like "I'll just sleep, just takes time, take this whatever.." but it was non-stop, kind of like, you know....[00:22:44] Now it could have been that they weren't making me feel that way but because I already felt that way, when I got sick it felt more like...you know what I mean? Maybe they weren't acting that much different than a lot of parents but because I already felt, they're already so judgmental or whatever, maybe when I was sick I felt more...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: You know it was even worse when they get sick, like when my mom gets sick, then it's all about melodrama. There's no, that's my pet peeve. Like I'm sick right now but I try to, they are all about the fucking melodrama, you know?
CLIENT: Like they'll literally groan and moan and act all like "blah", you know? Just really, really, like, I can't even act it out cause I'll shoot myself. Just like really, I mean it's just ridiculous. Very self-pity.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:25:00] My mom would be like "Get me a glass of water." I don't mind getting her a glass of water but its like "dude, come on."
CLIENT: Yeah, the tone and the whole like, they ruin whatever I would want to do for her, she ruins it with that behavior. It's like, that's why I would want to do things for my dad because he didn't really ask me to do anything for him, you know? Or if he did, he never asked in that way. For them, they just want to be coddled and I don't know what the fuck they want but it's awful. They'll have a commentary, they'll be like "I was sick, there wasn't one person to bring me a glass of water."
CLIENT: Yeah, they'll say shit like that. Its like "Dude, are you kidding me? Do you know how many millions of people?" (coughs) It's like what the fuck are you talking about, you know? [00:26:11] (pause) Coffee does make you cough more but...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well also because I don't want to hear it. You know she's been asking me "How are you?" I'm like "I'm fine," you know? I don't want "oh, you're still sick? Blah blah, Alright I'm going to make blah blah." Just fucking alright, calm down. These things happen, its germs, whatever, its winter. [00:27:44] There's just not a normal, there isn't a normal reaction, it's just..
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. "Hope you feel better."
CLIENT: Right, right. I mean I don't mind the thing that she does, they're all healthy things, I will drink and eat whatever, its fine. It's just if she was, if they were more like "I've made this thing, it's downstairs, if you want it, come get it, it might help you." It's like "just chill." Like it's not so...
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:28:54] My mom's is even worse, if you tell her it's that, then she gets angry. So it clearly is that, you know what I mean? She gets very defensive. (pause) Which is kind of odd for a woman, women are a little more, that's why she's so like my grandfather. I feel like women no matter what can be like "Yeah, you know, it's been hard, I'm depressed." But she'll say "Of course I'm depressed, look at what I've been dealing with." It's not that she doesn't accept it but she'll immediately cut it off at "look what I've had to deal with." So somehow she's a martyr and she's done all these things, instead of it being just something that she's probably had her whole life.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Right, right and then she'll be like "I'm a tough lady, you don't see all the things I've put up with." That's sad, she just wants I guess, lots of recognition and validation for stuff she's gone through I guess, I don't know what that is but she'll always bring it back to that. [00:30:28] It's like "I'm not going to give that to you. If it was up to you I guess I would not go anywhere, not do anything," and just be my mom's Bambi (ph?), you know what I mean? Like I'm not going to feel bad for you. I'm alone too, I've told her that but it's come to, in the past I've been like "what the fuck, you don't think I'm alone? You got to move on with your life, you've got to fucking deal with it." Not to mention I told her a year or two after my dad died. "Get married, date, I don't give a shit." My dad's side, me, we were like "You're a young woman, but if you're going to choose all these years to be woe is me and play the victim, then it's up to you, it's not my problem." (pause) Here's a very specific example. On my dad's side, my first cousin, I'm the youngest first cousin on my dad's side, one of my first cousins, she's a girl, got to be like fifty, fifty-five now, I don't know. When I was little she was, I remember she got engaged or something, or even married maybe, I don't know. She was early twenties and from what I remember everyone really liked this guy, he was a really sweet guy. Guy took a nap one day and never woke up. He had some kind of hemorrhage or something, young guy. [00:32:18] Now if that was my mom's side and her trajectory would have gone very differently. I think. But because it was my dad's side, you know, when I see her now, she's still the woman I've always known, full of life, tough, very pleasant, very big-hearted, married an awesome, awesome guy who we all love and I think that, like that's from my dad's side of the family. (pause) Now of course she's different from my mom, she's more assimilated, there's other things but still, it's like you can't even go out to have coffee with somebody? No one's telling you to be dating the whole town but come on. [00:33:33] (pause) Sorry I'm doing that, it just feels nice.
CLIENT: It's the warmth. No it's just for me.
CLIENT: The warmth feels nice.
CLIENT: Yeah it just feels more soothing, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I saw an Asian lady yesterday...While a few of my friends will go to the doctor, I mean this is how bad it is...
CLIENT: They're giving masks. I mean that was the other reason, I also don't want to go to the doctor because I don't want to get more sick.
CLIENT: I mean I think I'm fine, just you know, will take a couple days. [00:34:34]
CLIENT: No because I'm here, I'm talking, I'm not sweating, I'm not, I feel fine.
CLIENT: I'm wearing red pants.
CLIENT: (pause) It's amazing like the more I think about it, what a profound, like, if you have these kind of issues with one of your parents or both your parents, what a fucking nightmare. And all these years, it's pretty much effected every single thing I've ever done. I don't want to be one of those people that blame my mother for everything but in this case it's kind of hard not to (laughs). And my dad, for certain things, and my dad. Like all the girls I've dated, all the, like there's no....(pause) [00:36:04]
CLIENT: Everything.
CLIENT: There's none. No, there's none. I mean she doesn't understand how she constantly turns everything to be about her. She just doesn't understand that. It's inevitable, I would say nine out of ten times, when it's me and her and other people, I'll be shooting her looks, like "Shut up, Tricia is telling a story." [00:37:46] "Don't make Tricia's story about you." It just drives me insane. It drives me fucking insane. She really is my, I mean, it's not that my grandfather made everything about him but he was so self-involved and so serious and so angry, anxious, just fucking, you know, tough, kind of bristling, I don't know, defensive, he's really, she's got that. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Once in a while she does do that but see the problem is she has changed a little bit over the last, you know?
CLIENT: But again it's like, that's great now, but for me it doesn't help the hardwiring that's...you know what I mean? Because yeah, she has changed, not completely, but I see a nice change, you know, but so what? It's not, it's neither here nor there at this point. (pause) [00:39:32]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly, yep. (pause) [00:40:48] [00:42:00] This is the hardest, that's the other thing that, it's very hard if you have that part of you that is melodramatic, that's so, you know what I mean? It's a tough one. (pause) You have to work very, very hard to undo that. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:45:47] Yeah I think if you own up to it that, cause it's not necessarily that it's bad, its expressive, you know, there's nothing wrong with that. So if you know it's there you can kind of use it to your advantage in a way.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right. (pause) [00:47:10]
CLIENT: Thank you very much. Ten o'clock?
CLIENT: How are you?
CLIENT: You got my message.
CLIENT: Okay. I'm so sorry.
CLIENT: I mean, man. I've just been – I finally feel kind of better, but now I just feel like I have a cold, kind of. But it was fucking brutal. I just was so – and even now, I'm just tired. But anyways.
CLIENT: No, because she said bronchitis is a virus.
CLIENT: So she was like –
CLIENT: Yeah, you got to just – and she's like, it seems like you've been pretty – I'm pretty on top of that kind of stuff. But she was like, yeah, you can't try to walk it off. You definitely have to just – [00:01:08]
CLIENT: Crash for a little while. But yeah – I haven't had bronchitis since I was fucking 11. It's crazy. I cannot believe how bad it is this year. Anyways, so yeah, I'm sorry. I just zoned out from everything.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I know, I'm sorry.
CLIENT: I literally checked out from everything. I think I just shut down, kind of. I literally slept for a day or something. I just was – I don't know. I think I mentally kind of shut down, too. I just kind of –
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: No, no, it was totally on my mind, but yeah. I mean, I owed you a phone call. There was a couple of other things, and I was – I don't know. I was just – I just couldn't. I just shut down.
CLIENT: I don't know. I just shut down. I just felt exhausted, and I just, I didn't even feel motivated to pick up the phone to – I don't know, it's kind of stupid.
CLIENT: Well, it wasn't physically –
CLIENT: Like I said, that's why I'm saying I mentally shut down, too. I just kind of just – I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, no def, that Monday, I just, I was on lockdown.
CLIENT: Well, yeah. I think it –
CLIENT: Triggered it, but I think, yeah, I just felt exhausted so I think I felt mentally exhausted, too, so I think I just didn't want to just deal at all. For one day, I just didn't want to – I don't know. Yeah, and obviously I was physically able to make a phone call. But yeah, I just – I don't know. Yeah, I don't know.
CLIENT: I know. I know. I know, it's stupid. I'm sorry.
CLIENT: It is odd, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe like – I was thinking, because I did think about it, too, I was like, yeah, that is weird. I haven't done that –
CLIENT: Yeah, in a very long time. I think it was also – maybe I felt so exhausted, and I was mentally exhausted too, that maybe just for one day, I just wanted to even take a break from that. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Feeling like, oh, yeah, I'm in therapy, and maybe that's what it – I just wanted to not deal with any of that stuff. Work, nothing. Yeah, I don't know. [00:04:07]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. For some reason, I felt like I just somehow mentally, I just needed to be totally checked out.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, because I was also kind of bummed that I didn't come in. Like I said about being sick, I was – I mean, obviously I knew that I couldn't, but I still felt stupid, like, what the fuck? I just felt – it's just a pet peeve. I don't know. Being sick is a pet peeve of mine. And it's funny, too, out of all people, it's Kelly's pet peeve, too. She's been fighting stuff off and on, as well, being sick and we both – [00:05:02]
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Well, I think for her it's she works at a university. Her son, you know. And also she's like me, I think she just kind of tries to walk things off, but that's probably not the way to go.
CLIENT: Yeah. I just felt like, ugh, I hate being sick, and hacking, coughing really bad, and just feeling shitty, and it's stopping me from doing things, and I've – yeah. I wasn't super angry at myself, but I was just kind of frustrated, bummed.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:06:00]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's just that thing I have about when you're sick, it's somehow... (pause)
CLIENT: No, not roll your –
CLIENT: Oh, that I'm –
CLIENT: No, no. I didn't think – no, no. I just felt just annoyed with myself or the situation. Yeah. But (pause) yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, just –
CLIENT: I just shut everything out, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, but in a way, yeah, that's one good thing about it was I didn't beat myself up too much, so then when I called you, I didn't – I was like, no, I feel bad, I should call. I didn't feel bad like I'm an idiot so much as – so that's better. I was like, look, for one day, I just – because it wasn't just about here, or whatever. I just totally shut everything out, and I was like, that happens sometimes. I just needed a totally mental health/coughing sick day or whatever. Oh, that's ironic to say I needed a mental health day, but you know what I mean. Just zoned out. But yeah. [00:07:57]
CLIENT: No, I don't think about – I mean the only thing I think is I just feel bad. She's waiting and I should've – with this kind of stuff, you always get annoyed because I wish I could've called for whatever for you, and then you're like – I don't know. Yeah, then I feel bad because you're waiting.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: About what?
CLIENT: Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was – [00:11:59]
CLIENT: Yeah, that was part of it, too, yeah. Monday I did feel that, too. I was like, well, why am I not? It would just take a second to call Tricia. Why am I not? I don't know. That – yeah. Yeah, that did –
CLIENT: Yeah, which – yeah. Which doesn't even make sense. I – what's the difference? I mean, yeah, mine was a little more wordy, but so what? She's at work. "Hey, babe, I'm good," winky face. What? That's – (laughing) I don't know. I'm always looking for something. Like my mom. (pause) I'm sorry. [00:16:00]
CLIENT: That's a good point. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true.
CLIENT: Yeah, it feeds into something to be anxious about.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's weird. I never thought about that. Yeah, that's a good point. That's a good point. Even though I've gotten so much better, but still, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, there are moments. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, for no reason.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's so weird.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: There's more push – not push and pull. There's more – it's like jumping. A lot of times I'm in sync with the way I'm behaving outwardly, but then suddenly, there'll be these moments where I just... [00:21:01]
CLIENT: No. Not anymore, no.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I do. Because it has to be the case, right? There have to be people in the world to, like, hey, babe, and they just don't think about it. They literally – obviously.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: And also it's a little selfish or a little narcissistic or whatever. And it's a way of putting yourself down, too, in a way. It's like as if other people are somehow better at this stuff. It's like everybody has their moments of anxiety or nervousness, or their trepidation. But for some reason, that doesn't console or appease. (pause)
CLIENT: No, it didn't.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, generally, yeah, that's where my mind goes. That somehow it's either judging or just completely aloof, that I'm not –
CLIENT: – that I'm not important enough, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: Oh, to acknowledge that – yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I don't like it because it's – I mean deep down, I think that voice is there. I mean, I think that's why I then feel anxiety about it. I mean, yeah, because I didn't – it's not that I didn't think about it, but it wasn't at all really on the radar of like, well, yeah, I mean Tricia might worry, or she might – I think there's just this, well, I don't know what it is because I don't think about it, but I don't like it because it isn't very thoughtful. It's not – it's this weird, self-involved place that I don't like that. [00:26:22]
CLIENT: And the weird thing though is I'm one of the most considerate – and I'm not saying this to be a dick –
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm oddly super considerate, but it's as if then the moment's where there might be real vulnerability, I guess, that's when I get more – you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I don't know. [00:26:57]
CLIENT: Yeah. Or just it reminds me of all those old times when I would just not come. It's just like, yeah.
CLIENT: But yeah, but I know it's for a different –
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. Exactly, yeah. No, I got – I definitely got that, but I think it just... (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or I'll think something like – or even if it matters, it's like a blip, and then I'll be like, whatever, and then it's like moving along. I guess, I mean I don't know. Like I said, it's not like in my conscious thought, but I'm sure that I must be subconsciously be thinking that people move on, and whatever, and they... (pause) [00:28:13]
CLIENT: Hm, maybe.
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe subconsciously, I don't know. I have no idea. (pause) For example, you know that website Etsy, or whatever? [00:29:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, there's this really cool Web site that you can buy vintage shoes, and –
CLIENT: And just stuff, really cool stuff. So I went on there, and there were all these shoes that I wanted to buy Kelly. So I bought her a pair of these shoes, right. They're like these red, kind of 1950s or 60s pumps with this design thing on them, I don't know. But even that, I'm like, is she really going to like – what if she doesn't love them? What if she – you know what I mean? What the fuck am I talking about? I bought her shoes. We can just joke about it. I can be like, yeah, I saw these online. They looked pretty cool. I don't know in real life what you – who the fuck gives a shit? That's a really thoughtful thing to do for someone. A lot of boyfriends don't buy shoes online for their girlfriend, but even that, it's like somehow things hinge on that, on these things. [00:30:12]
CLIENT: Can I ask you something that's related but unrelated? We've never fully talked about this but I'm pretty sure that in terms of if there was a diagnosis or whatever, one of the things kind of would be PTSD, right, for me?
CLIENT: There's a lot of overlap, yeah. For all those years, like even now, I mean now I'm so much better, but not wanting to hear anything about heart attacks.
CLIENT: Not wanting to say that –
CLIENT: Seeing bizarre dreams. [00:33:59]
CLIENT: All those times when I would see dreams where I couldn't wake up. Night terrors or whatever those are called. But at night – they're not nightmares but like –
CLIENT: Night terrors. So yeah, just – I don't know. I don't know. For some reason I was like, you know what, I think that would just make me feel – I'm not trying to force it, I just – it would somehow make me feel like there's some kind of – it's so fucking chaotic and insane that it just would be a little bit helpful to be like, okay, you know what? It's not exactly – I mean I wasn't a veteran in Nam or something, but it's like it gives me something to hang my hat on and be like, all right, this is kind of pretty much what happened to me. [00:34:51]
CLIENT: Picking up and moving, being so close to my family, being the first one born in the country.
CLIENT: And going to North Carolina where I don't know who I am, and suddenly, there's no thought of you're Assyrian, or whatever, but then you move and then you have to think about that because people are looking at you funny, and treating you funny, and being alone, and all that shit about not going to school, kicking and screaming, and yeah, it's just all this fucked up shit. Yeah, it all just feels traumatic to me. It's just very strange. [00:36:03]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, you're right. No. Not anymore. (Laughing) No. I think it's because I feel so much better now that I can have some perspective and not feel so uncomfortable or like a loser, or so angry.
CLIENT: Yeah, no. And now I can now take some ownership and feel kind of proud because when I tell the story, it's like a lot of people would not – I'm doing pretty fucking well for – I mean, I'm incredibly well adjusted considering. [00:37:00]
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: I've never loved any living thing the way I love this cat. I mean, it sounds crazy, but...
CLIENT: Well, it's like all those quotes that people throughout the ages – you're not a full human being until you've really loved an animal or something like that. It makes perfect sense. It's just...
CLIENT: Yeah, because of these cute little cat purr snores, whatever. It's not even snores, but just even her breathing, the fact that she's just a breathing creature, it's like what the fuck? This is so weird. I just can't get over it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's nature. It's like unadulterated nature. There's no affectation to her. She's a critter. She just needs me for food and water and love. And that's insane. So when you look in her eyes, it's pure nature. There's no – it's just an amazing thing. [00:41:11]
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's as if we've diverged from the fact that that's what we are, but we've kind of gotten derailed.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right, right.
CLIENT: Maybe on some – I don't know if it's that far, but maybe.
CLIENT: Right. (pause) Not to get off-track, but I got something in the mail from my insurance that we have until March or something.
CLIENT: What do you mean? After March?
CLIENT: Oh.
CLIENT: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I've had really good luck with this whole thing, yeah.
CLIENT: Okay, all right. So what will happen in March?
CLIENT: Right, that's what it says.
CLIENT: Yeah. They're like, someone in our whatever network.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. So then at that point, we'd be meeting twice a week?
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: We'd have to –
CLIENT: Talk about it, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, okay, so it's not like suddenly everything will be different after March. Okay.
CLIENT: All right, I just wasn't sure, so okay.
CLIENT: All right, cool. That's awesome.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: Oh, we're not meeting tomorrow and Monday.
CLIENT: Oh, dammit. I would've brought a check, I'm sorry. I totally forgot.
CLIENT: Okay, okay. So we're meeting Thursday?
CLIENT: So next Thursday –
CLIENT: At 12:50. Okay.
CLIENT: All right, Tricia. Thanks a lot. Have a good long weekend.
CLIENT: Friday was fine, but since Sunday, it's been a bit of a fucking nightmare. So, oh, man. So you know a few months ago, I don't know when, in November, December, I don't know, I had asked Kelly to do the artwork for the CD, and she said yes.
CLIENT: She never brought it I think I told you, she never brought it up.
CLIENT: I don't know what the series of events was, but at one point, I just get an e-mail, one were it says, "Hey, I think I'm going to pass on this. This piece is too loaded." That's all the e-mail said. Now meanwhile, I started thinking, what is it that she's with her girlfriend and it was fine, but maybe the girlfriend all of a sudden was like, I said something kind of critical in my first response, and maybe it was what the hell? Who is this Samantha? We're working on his fucking ex-girlfriend I don't know if that's what happened? I have no fucking idea. All I know is she sent me that, let's see...
CLIENT: Yeah, it's called "The Samantha Sessions."
CLIENT: And now it'd be one thing if she had no idea. We've been dating four months. I mean she's heard my songs. I'm 99.999 percent sure she saw some of the videos. I'm 100 percent sure. They all say at the end [00:06:00]
CLIENT: Or the Kickstarter thing. I mean, come on. So okay, so I said, hey, babe, we're sending you a couple of samples. By the way, I didn't get a couple of samples, I got one. Okay. I got the first one, taking a look now. Looks really great so far. Sent some notes for possible tweaking.
CLIENT: Agreed. Agreed. Agreed, but guess what's Brian did? So Brian fucking calls her. She doesn't answer. Okay? So I leave a voice-mail, and in my voice-mail, I definitely sounded and of course I felt like a chump after leaving that. Because my other friend, Dave, he was like, "Man, I would've probably done the same, but you probably shouldn't have left a voice-mail." It's because you feel like a chump. I left this totally earnest it's like, babe, I'm totally confused. I said, I was really excited that you decided to work on it. I think it looked great. I was like oh, and then I went through this whole I was like, if it's something about the title of the record or I was like, I just want you to know I wrote these songs a long time ago, and they have and they really don't, it's just a cool title that at the time made sense, and it's a cool title. And I was like, I don't think of anyone when I sing these songs. I'm just proud that they're good pop songs, that's it. It's just music. But even then, I'm feeling like an idiot because I don't know what's [00:10:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. "I normally don't work with anyone I'm seeing, so agreeing to do this was my mistake. It seems it's pretty much finished anyway, so just keep it as is. You don't need my input." Like, what the it's totally so the last thing, this is all Sunday. This is the last thing I've I said, okay. I'm still pretty confused, though, and I feel like I hurt your feelings somehow or something. I love the design you guys sent me and was excited, grateful, and relieved that you decided to help. Now I'm back to square one. Those photos aren't set as is. Sorry if asking you was stupid on my part. That's why I brought it up Friday. I sensed that you didn't want to do it. Anyway, I have no idea what happened here, but I think I was being pretty appreciative, open, and psyched, and I was really excited to see you today, and appreciated the sweet gesture of making dinner. I'm a bit baffled, babe." Which I think is a very honest and I'm [00:12:24]
CLIENT: Yes, irritated, but still showing love.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Just letting her know that I -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I have not heard from -
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I had the photos, I have all the texts. I kind of know I have an idea of and it's standard. Send me some fucking options. This is my fucking CD. What? I'm supposed to just kiss your ass because you did it in five minutes and that's it, we're done? I'm totally confused. I'm totally, totally fucking confused. So it's just a number, but ultimately, even more than that, I just feel this deep sense of I kind of give up. I don't know I was born too early, too late, it's always weird timing, I don't know. I can't make one decent long-term dating thing. Not that I can't make it, but somehow it doesn't work. And now [00:16:00]
CLIENT: Well, here's the thing. Why would I get in touch with this girl now?
CLIENT: Yeah. So -
CLIENT: She absolutely has to apologize. So -
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean I'm will all that.
CLIENT: I'm will all that. But again, let's say that was me, right. And let's say I had one of those dark nights or something. Do you think I would do this?
CLIENT: No. I would suck it up, and I would at least text her and be like, I am so sorry about I just got very sensitive or whatever.
CLIENT: Well what I'm saying is I'd do it even maybe later that night or the next morning. It's fucking Thursday.
CLIENT: Well yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, my other thing with that is what bothers me is then all those conversations we had were lies. That was the whole thing, right, about this you're an artist, I'm an artist. We're serious about our work, and it's great to support each other, it's great to that's the kind of artist she one thing that would never happen to me is, you could tell me right now that you didn't like my record. It would hurt my feelings, but I wouldn't give a rat's ass. My records really good. So do you know what I mean? I'm sensitive about other you know what I'm saying? But in terms of my art, I don't give a shit if somebody writes a diatribe against me in a magazine. It will hurt my feelings, but you know what, I'm -
CLIENT: Right, right. The only thing I had thought today, I was like, well, maybe I'll just Saturday or whenever, I'll just be like, listen, I just want to make sure you're okay. But even that, that's just a roundabout way of saying get in touch with me, and I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. Now the upside of all this is I'm here, I'm not being a puddle on the floor. [00:22:22]
CLIENT: Yeah, no. I'm done.
CLIENT: No, no.
CLIENT: No, I didn't, but you know what I mean. But that I'll be very careful to even let it get to this point from now on. I was the one -
CLIENT: I don't think it is. I don't think it is. I'm not saying I'm going to be some stone wall. I'm just saying that people have got to prove I kind of let her get away with not proving that much.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was the one who was like, let's not see other people. I was the one who well, I was the one who gave her another this is the same girl who two years ago, remember we made out and then she disappeared, right. So, and yes, I gave her another chance because she was so apologetic and whatever. But -
CLIENT: All I'm saying is from now on, it's going to be about good company, and fun. Okay? And then that person needs to prove to me that it should be more than that. And I'm not saying this in some kind of clearly, I know that tomorrow if I meet some attractive girl who I'm into, I'm going to be into her. But I'm just saying just like I did with her, I'm going to be just a little bit more... [00:25:08]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Well right.
CLIENT: Well, let me tell you the other thing I thought. Let me tell you the other thing I thought because listen, there's no way this is there's going to be no closure on this. I'm not doing that anymore. There's no way. The other thing I thought is I'm going to give this exactly one week, okay. Then the text I'm going to send her or the e-mail I'm going to send her is going to be like, hope you're doing well. I have no idea, literally, no idea what's happened. I think you're really talented, and I think you're amazing, but I can't be with someone who I'm going to break up with her. I can't be with someone who isn't showing me the courtesy, care, and respect to just talk to me. [00:28:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to give her a week, just because I think that's fair. But yeah, come Sunday, it's going to be like, no. You know what? I don't think so.
CLIENT: Now -
CLIENT: Well, I was going to say, in a way, it's not the kind of closure I want, but you know what? It is closure. It's kind of what I should've done with Samantha. She doesn't even have to get back to me because the thing we no, no, no. I'm the one who reached out to you, set the tone, and I don't care what you do now because I've broken up with you. So I think that's the way it's going to go because you're absolutely right. That's even that's why I'm saying even if she was super apologetic and showed up at my door, I'm not sure now. I'm tired of being with people like that. [00:29:08]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no.
CLIENT: That's the thing. I don't want I definitely I don't feel rejected. When I say I feel sad, it's more, it's almost like the sadness of a friendship. It's almost like that's what you think of me? I thought we were tight? I don't feel like suddenly she's not attracted to me. It's not that anymore. It's more like you have issues, and for whatever reason, you don't think enough of this to talk to me.
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah, yeah. [00:30:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: It's okay. I mean, I'm kind of I mean I'm sorry, too, but I am kind of proud of how I'm handling it. (pause)
CLIENT: Right, right, right, right.
CLIENT: Just fairness.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, I mean and there are always little things. I mean it always bothered me that she never really offered to pay for things, or to chip in. And that's a little thing, but that just -
CLIENT: Yeah, reach for your purse.
CLIENT: That I don't answer.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And more and more and more, and this is the issue I have with men and women. I just feel like all of this is about being spoiled. Something about it just smacks of I don't know what. It's like, oh, well. He said something that I didn't no, see, but whatever, and then they just get -
CLIENT: Yeah, they or they and I'm not trying to trivialize it but what else could it possibly how do you not think to just talk to somebody? That's being a spoiled asshole. So -
CLIENT: Oh, I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Okay. What time tomorrow?
CLIENT: 10:30? 11:30.
CLIENT: Okay. I brought a check, Tricia, but I, I didn't make it out so -
CLIENT: I'll just bring it with me tomorrow or if do you want me just to make it out now?
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:37:01]
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: Perfect.
CLIENT: Awesome.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: Oh, shit. It doesn't I'm sorry.
CLIENT: I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Monday, I'll bring it Monday. It's stupid.
CLIENT: So, well, I'm here so that's good. I got an hour's sleep.
CLIENT: Yep. Sorry.
CLIENT: Wanting some -
CLIENT: And I think there's something about just company. I mean, I work at home. I live alone. I'm a relatively young guy. I don't like what am I doing? I don't know. [00:02:56]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the funny -
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the funny thing. There's nothing like that. I don't feel any of that. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the important thing. That's what I was going to say. When I was on when I got back on with K Stupid, I wasn't like it's just a normal sense of you check out some chicks. Well, why isn't this chick writing me back, whatever, but it's not there's no extreme of oh, I'm going to get all these chicks, or why isn't that one writing me back, and why isn't this one? I just don't care, in a good way. I already have a date for Saturday, whatever. I just don't... [00:04:09]
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: And I don't want to do that right now.
CLIENT: I mean last night, I was like, well, what the fuck? Why am I not sleeping? I mean that's not good that I wasn't sleeping, but I wasn't in a panic about it. I like, you know what, I'm just up watching Fringe. I don't know. I was like, I'm anxious. My mind is just kind of I just don't feel that sleepy. It's not good but I try not to beat myself up for it. I don't know. (pause) [00:05:00]
CLIENT: I was anxious. No, I didn't even try to. My mind was just working.
CLIENT: I had the lights out, but I was just laying in bed.
CLIENT: With my laptop.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it's just a way to occupy my mind, and just...
CLIENT: No, I've gotten a little bit better at when I feel tired because it's so easy, I'd just fold my laptop, put it on the table, and I'll just lay down.
CLIENT: For some reason, yeah, I just I don't know. Now other than mental stuff, I could also have been that I had too much coffee, because I had more than I usually have I'll have this and that's probably it, and I probably won't even finish that. But yesterday, I had three or four cups.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: I had one when I came here, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, so -
CLIENT: I had half of that. I had half of that. I had a full well, I guess it wasn't really full because it was half hot water, but I had a Starbucks coffee. Then my uncle was at our house that was the other thing. My day wasn't very restful in a way. It was I was here, I was thinking about stuff. My uncle was over and I hadn't seen him in a long time. I hadn't seen my grandmother, then we went to Panera. I had another coffee there, so what is that? Three, right. That, I rushed from there to practice, and I got one of these, and I drank the whole thing. [00:07:04]
CLIENT: Just because there's all this stuff. It wasn't like my usual routine, and it was fucking freezing. And I also do I mean I'm weird. I kind of do it's like a I'm like my dad that way, or my dad's side of the family. It's just coffee's always around. I don't finish it or whatever. It's like a cigarette or if you chew on your pen or something. But yet, it was so fucking cold that I ended up drinking all of it. Or it's like -
CLIENT: I can't stand decaf.
CLIENT: Just have tea. Yeah. It tastes burnt and weird. Yeah, I don't know. I just don't like it.
CLIENT: Tea's okay.
CLIENT: Eh, hot chocolate's okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, no shit. That's very true. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And even as it was happening, I was like, oh, this is clearly too much coffee. It's not...
CLIENT: Yep, yep, yep. Yep. I always am kind of like, whatever. It was like, no, but when you have that much, it's it's one thing if I have this, and then let's say if I go to the Guys at 8:00 or 9:00 p.m., so all I've had is half of this, and I'll get another one, and I'll kind of just toy with it, that's fine. But Starbucks, Panera, these fucking idiots with their disgusting coffee, that's so there was that.
CLIENT: I know. I had thought of that, too.
CLIENT: That was the weird thing. I don't know why I didn't do did I do that last night? I didn't do that. I've kind of been doing that lately just to have at least be like, okay, if I'm not going to fall asleep by midnight or 1:00, I could at least be asleep by 2:00. I mean, I got to somehow so I -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no. Well, this was -
CLIENT: Well, this was unusual. I've not been doing that it's been -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no, no. No, I've been getting more than four, so I've been better. But yeah, for whatever reason yesterday. Did I? I don't think I did. I don't think I had an Ambien. I don't know why. I think when I got home, I was just up, and I was like, all right, that's okay. I'm just up for now. But anyway.
CLIENT: Yeah, although I wasn't that cozy.
CLIENT: I think because of the coffee. I was definitely just -
CLIENT: That was the thing. There's no inkling that I'd be a fan. I mean we were just chatting. We chatted on OK Stupid. We -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't randomly -
CLIENT: No, no, no. We chatted on so I was just like, this is stupid to be on this. Now we've chatted and let's move it to a not that Facebook is great, but you know. So I was just like, whatever. It just I don't know.
CLIENT: Cookie cutter -
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah.
CLIENT: In general.
CLIENT: Yeah, in general. But yeah, especially I've been thinking about it the last few days, yeah. I mean again, it could be the coffee as well, but I don't know. I just worry that I even when I'm home, am I really relaxing? I mean, thank god for the cat. But I got to just get back to I mean, I was good for a week there with exercise stuff. I just got to get back to that. [00:19:04]
CLIENT: Like today.
CLIENT: Yeah, then I freak out because of family history, or my dad, or whatever. Just illness, or whatever the then I start freaking out. And then of course, that's a vicious cycle because you can't relax if you're like, you've got to relax. [00:20:08]
CLIENT: So especially if you don't relax, you're going to get sick. It's just that's not helpful. So I think other than this, I think it really has to be exercise, or maybe actual meditation, like going somewhere with people, or someone to just like I come here. Just because it's not at home, that's not really sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. It's not structured. It's not -
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Even my posture, it just bothers me. I try to do it myself, but I'm like, maybe I need somebody to fucking realign my spine, or just help me like when we play, I catch myself in the middle of a song or whatever, and I can tell I'm like this. Some of that is just my stance. I like to lean a little bit into the microphone, but still, I'm just not I just don't like that. So stuff like that. It's like all these little things add up. (pause) [00:23:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true, too. See, yeah, that's the other thing, too. I can't even what am I talking about? First of all, people have way more stress than what is my stress? I fucking work from home. I come here. I try to remind myself of that, but that's how I know I have to do something about it. What's going on? I mean, I don't know, or maybe I'm being extreme. There have been a lot of days maybe I'm saying all this now just this week [00:24:08]
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah.
CLIENT: It's not yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. And the fact is it isn't even that bad.
CLIENT: Yesterday was a fine day. I went to practice, had a great practice. Hung out with the guys. Yeah. I think it's just the mechanism is kicking in, like, oh, something happened with a girl or whatever. Now we've got to get wacky.
CLIENT: Right, right. Well, even though I don't think I want to be with her pretty much, so I think there's just that hardwired thing that's much less, but it's still trying to -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, deep down, I think there is, yeah. There's that. And I think, again, it doesn't help having this Assyrian element. I think if I was just completely Americanized, I'm in the same boat as everybody else. We're all trying to find somebody. I think I'd but that added element of it's almost like being rejected by two different groups. Instead of just one I'm America, everybody's American, whatever. There's no but this feels like I'm being deep down, there's that doom and gloom that I can't figure it out with either side of this cultural thing. Which again, I know is completely catastrophizing, and whatever, but yeah, deep down, it does feel that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yep. Or that I missed the boat somehow. I'm young, but I'm not young enough for girls that might be really cool, but they're 24 or 25. Or there might be women who are 40 who are really cool, but I'd like to have kids, and I'd like somehow there's yeah. Which again is neither here nor there. I mean I don't know what that means. There's all kinds of people all different ages, but yeah, it's just it's really my mom's side for sure. When I get like this, it's as if what ways can I find to be down on myself and ignore all the awesome things that are happening. [LAUGHING]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yep. I did get a great idea for a novel, though, a real idea. [00:29:08]
CLIENT: Other than that one that I'm trying to I think I'm just going to write about I'm going to fictionalize a memoir type, but I'm just going to call it fiction. Using as a base, the road trip when I moved out West I was thinking that would be a perfect narrative, plotting each stop, each town, or whatever, and then using those as flashbacks, or splicing in. Because I think that was kind of important [LAUGHING].
CLIENT: Right. Right. So I think (pause) because it's kind of perfect. Me trying to run away from something that you can't run away from. [00:30:14]
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Well, that was so insane. That was so fucking insane.
CLIENT: The decision, the move. I mean it was surreal, it was bizarre. I was sobbing as I'm driving on the highway. Oh, my god, it was so weird. So weird.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: A girl that I had already met and was going to meet me in Arizona. That was the one Assyrian girlfriend I had. And [00:31:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I just convinced myself that I got so wrapped up in, oh, my god, a girl likes me.
CLIENT: No, no, we -
CLIENT: This is 1991, Tricia. [LAUGHING]
CLIENT: No, writing letters.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Handwritten letters.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Well, both. Yeah. It was -
CLIENT: Well, she'd cry. She'd console me.
CLIENT: I don't remember. Yeah, I'm sure it was. My mom isn't at the end of the day, my mom is she isn't the type of person to castigate someone when she really sees I mean she's not like that. But I think the thing is that wasn't the help I needed. I mean I needed to be here and have medication, and someone to really take charge and be like, "Look, you've got to finish school," or whatever. "Let's get you some help." That's what I needed, but instead, they were like, "See ya." I mean they weren't like see ya, but there was no real no one called me out. No one called me out. Anyway. But yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Right, right. Well, I mean yeah, Oregon, that's almost like I blacked out almost. I don't know what was going on there, but other things, I mean, I think there is a somewhat I think in that way, I'm an artist. I'm like, no. You know what? This is scary or whatever, but I'm going to Europe. So I think generally, it's been good intentions, but I think maybe not thought out completely because of other issues that I hadn't sorted out. But yeah, you're right. It's kind of like, what's going on?
CLIENT: That's right. That's right. That's right.
CLIENT: Oh, it was a fucking nightmare.
CLIENT: It was, I mean, what doesn't feel I mean it was a fucking nightmare. The first night in the middle of nowhere, I don't know, wherever the fuck I was, having a complete panic attack in a fucking hotel room when you're 19 or 20. I mean, that's just one example.
CLIENT: Yeah. But not having the [where with all] (ph) to be like, I don't want to do this, I want to go back home, fucking carrying on across the country. I don't know who that person was. Those memories are just very strange, strange memories. [00:40:01]
CLIENT: Her.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I graduated early. There was a I think if all this shit hadn't happened, I was one of those kids like my background's weird or whatever, but I was going to make it work. I mean, you could never know, but I think more or less, I was going to make it work. I was ambitious, and I was but something clearly... Well, I don't know what it's like to be under mortar attack all of a sudden, but I don't know how else to explain it. [00:43:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And not just me, to the whole family.
CLIENT: Yeah. It derailed...
CLIENT: Yeah. Yep, yep.
CLIENT: No. I mean, they weren't cold to me or anything like that. There was love, but again, it's like you need practical, real guidance.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, no, I know.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, it was the reaction of stunned people who are already in a daze. They kind of didn't get it, but they got it. I think in their own way, they thought that's helpful. We'll support -
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Poor kid. Let him go, I don't know. Because they're not the type to just be like, all right. See you later. They're not like that. There is a lot of love, but just it was just shellshock. (pause) [00:45:02]
CLIENT: Okay. It's okay.
CLIENT: That'd be awesome.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right, right, right. It's kind of nice, too, because then that'd be less time between Monday and Thursday.
CLIENT: Perfect.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: No, I'll remember. Because I'm going to see you Monday anyway, right?
CLIENT: 10:00?
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Thanks. Cool. Thanks. Have a good weekend.
CLIENT: It's cold.
CLIENT: Yeah. How's it going?
CLIENT: You're all frilly.
CLIENT: So Friday I get an e-mail from Kelly. I didn't contact her all week, whatever, we didn't contact each other. So I get an e-mail from her that basically said "We haven't talked all week, I just thought I'd reach out." She was like, said something like "I kind of, it wasn't a big deal, like what happened, I felt like you made a big deal about it." Her e-mail was very innocuous, whatever, so I didn't respond to the e-mail, I just texted her. "Got your e-mail, I think this is the kind of thing we should talk about in person." So she came over that night but even, I could already tell that everything was fine, kind of, so she came over that night and basically we had a talk. So here's what, this is what she said. What ended up happening was she, between doing the artwork and making dinner that night I guess she had this moment that was like "I'm in a relationship." Like she had a freak out, a relationship freak out. [00:01:36] She's like and I'm like "I'm making this guy dinner and I'm doing the artwork for his CD and I've got a kid." She's like "I'm very focused on my work and my kid. I suddenly felt like..." Oh and also I guess she'd been a little bit annoyed, I guess she has a couple, not a lot but maybe like one or two friends, she doesn't have a big, she loves people but she doesn't, she only has a couple close friends. I guess one or two of them were like "Oh you're not being attentive enough to him. You guys only see each other once a week." I guess they were kind of...
CLIENT: Yeah, they were like "Hey you're dating this guy but you see him like once a week, you got to, something..." So I guess maybe that was bothering her too a little bit because she was like "No, we're fine, it's going really well?" So I think there's a couple things that just kind of...that being said I still told her, like it was good, I was like "Look, I'm scared too, of course, that's why we get along so well, that's why this is working because we both understand that relationships aren't' easy and we're both very focused on things we want to accomplish in life and we have..."Oh and the other thing she was saying was "They were making me feel bad, I like being alone, I'm not rushing into getting married again or whatever." [0003:12] So I was like "I'm the same..." and it's true. I am the same way. In a weird way I oftentimes feel relief when she leaves the next day, not because I'm glad it's over but I think I do like my little routines, my alone time and all that, you know? So I was like "I'm like that too." But I did tell her "You also, let me just tell you what was going on with me." So I just told her "It wasn't a matter of making a big deal, if it seemed that way to you it was because I literally had no idea what the fuck was going on." (laughs) So I was like, you have to imagine right, you're with one of your best friends, I was like "I don't know a Erin. Shit is Erin upset with me too? Did I do something wrong and now Erin's...?" So she totally got where I was coming from but I was glad I was able to tell her to her face that and I was honest, we kind of, we joked, I was like "Yeah you know, you don't, you could maybe be a smidge more attentive but what we've had, it's been great, like everything's going really well." [00:04:26] It was awesome, we had a great night.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: That that wasn't cool.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's right. I told her "All that would have happened is if you had just called me." I was like, "I didn't care that you cancelled dinner, and I didn't give a shit that you didn't want to do that artwork. " Would it be a little like "Oh, that's too bad?" So what, you know? But honestly that was like a one second, a one minute, like "Hey babe listen I'm sorry I feel a little bit frazzled and a little bit overwhelmed, it's not about you or anything like that, everything's cool I just..." That's it! Done, done. So it felt good to just tell her that, you know? That was it, we had a blast. [00:05:27]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So now in a way it's even better, it's like that was very adult.
CLIENT: And also I'm just glad it redeemed that I'm right about her. That's why I was so, I didn't get it. She's a good person.
CLIENT: Yeah I can't be that off, she's a good person.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So we had a great time and then the next day she texted me, whatever. Then yesterday was the first time, that was very sweet...Did you see the moon yesterday?
CLIENT: That was unfucking real! So I texted her, I don't think I even said anything, whatever, big deal. She was so sweet, she like texted me back with two hearts. She was like "You treat me so good." It was nice. I guess we're good, I mean I'm very proud of how I handled it and I'm not, just because it's all good now, I'm not, you know. It is what it is. [00:06:46] See what happens. Oh and I even pushed her on it. I was like "So, do you know not want to be serious?" I was like "You don't, we've been dating since October." She's like "yeah, yeah I know. No, that's not what I'm saying." I was like "Ok, you can tell me that too, if this is just a fling, if it's just a physical thing or whatever, we're just hanging out, we're buddies who are having sex...If I just know then it's all good."
CLIENT: So it kind of felt good to just really clarify what's going on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Well and also in a way it's a huge compliment. What she said was "You know this is the first serious relationship I've had in years." [00:08:22] It's like, she's like "I just had a moment."
CLIENT: Yeah and also she said "I'd really kind of vowed..." I think what a lot of people do when they go through a divorce. She was like "I gave so many years of my life and I just...I've kind of stayed away from anything serious." So it's a huge compliment actually, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah and the awesome thing was, we got it right out of the way and it was a very nice conversation, it wasn't (laughs), you know? Then we had a blast. We had a great time and then...She was like "I have to go to on a trip for a day or two for work." I was like "Cool, whatever." She's like "Do you want to come with me?" Cool, you know?
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause)[00:09:37] So it was good but meanwhile my mom wasn't feeling too good yesterday so that...I was kind of proud of that too, I had a little bit of a panic attack, but then I felt better. It's like I just got a break now, she's in her seventies now, she's...
CLIENT: She called me and sounded really like, more than anything she sounded incredibly exhausted and depressed and I got home and she was on the couch and she was kind of shivering, she was really cold. I told her, I was like "Mom, I think really you're just super depressed and exhausted. You don't eat enough, you're not..." And she even said "I'm kind of abusing myself."
CLIENT: But I was like "I don't know what to tell you? No one's making you do anything. You have a beautiful home, just chill." So in a way I handled it well it's just that physical stuff makes me...and I was like "You're not thinking of me. For no reason you're making me panic and get worried, there's nothing wrong, you got to take better care of yourself." [00:11:12]
CLIENT: She said what happened was she had gone shopping, she had got home and her heart, she had like palpitations or something and she felt like she was going to pass out. Now of course at that age, that's whatever, but I was like "Mom, honestly I think you just came up the stairs, I tell you not to lug heavy shit." I tell her to buy little things at the store, just go more often or something, I don't know. But water, this, that, so she brought them up the stairs, probably hadn't eaten shit...
CLIENT: You know, I was like "I think you're exhausted with Grandma, this, that, you're not eating and your apartment's freezing. It's really cold out." Normally I like it cold but like it's freezing, you know....and on top of that she has hypothyroid something.
CLIENT: So I was like, I even looked it up and showed her. "Look, weakness, fatigue, paleness, tomorrow you just got to let your doctor know that you're having these, whatever." So of course once I got home though, I also know it's a lot mental because I, you know what, "I'm going to bring Cecelia down here." The minute I put Cecelia on her lap, she was like hugging her, she started crying. (pause) [00:12:46] I was like "Mom, come on man..."
CLIENT: Yeah. What do you say? I don't know what to say, she's seventy and taking care of her ninety year old mother, I mean, there's no easy way around that.
CLIENT: (huffs)
CLIENT: No way, no way. I'll be excited if she just lets her fucking doctor know today what happened. No, she wouldn't do that. I mean she has her friends and stuff. At least that's something. They're really nice. (pause)
CLIENT: Me?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean it's just a bummer, like I have to be, I've decided that I can't get too sucked into that so I really have to take a stance like "You know what, she's her own person, she wants to be a martyr for her mom or whatever, I can't because this doesn't have an end." I don't know what else I can do, I've been very clear about...I also don't want to be her nurse because she's still my mom. She needs to suck it up a little bit too, she just wanted attention, she wanted me to be around and it's like I'm not going to be... you know? That's a little harsh but, I know her, that's what she's always wanted, and that's just not me. I'm not going to get sucked into this, like wallowing, weird, "Get me some water, get me tea, get me..." I'll do some of that but it's got to be very "Here's your tea, here's your fucking lemon water, whatever, I got to go." I feel bad but for myself, that's for my own...you know? [00:14:58]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean to her credit this doesn't really happen, I think it just, she just had one of those days, you know, where it just...And the good thing was I left and then I called her like once an hour. I called her three times, I called her every hour. She was totally fine. I called her, the first time she sounded better, I called her again she sounded totally...just fine.
CLIENT: Yeah and I don't mind doing that but I'm just not going to do it the way they do it. I got to live my life and I'll keep tabs, I'm around anyway, it's the city, we're not going anywhere but I can't just do it the way she does it for her mom, that's not healthy. (pause) [00:15:56] But yeah, I didn't get angry at her, you know, she's older. What are you going to say? Like I keep telling her the same things but it seems like she's decided that as long as she's able she wants to do what she's doing for her mom. How could you not respect? What are you going to say? (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Mm hm. [00:17:14]
CLIENT: Right. Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Oh, right. The move to Oregon.
CLIENT: Yeah but you know how I look at it though is like, I think what happens to a lot of people, you see your parents so frail like that, a lot of that stuff falls by the wayside, I mean...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah and especially cause I'm not doing it in a way that's bothering me. The only thing that bothers me is my own issue. I just get (inaudible), on anything physical I just start having my own panic attacks but that has nothing to do with her. Really the mixed feeling is just it kind of, I've never understood people who weren't a little more self-caring, not selfish but it baffles my mind. I don't understand that. [00:18:30] I've always been, I'm like my grandfather that way, I need to do whatever I need to do and as long as I'm not hurting other people I don't really give a shit. My mom just doesn't seem to have that, like she'll probably maybe rest today too and that's it, tomorrow it will be back to same routine with my grandmother. (pause). Then you go to dark places, you start thinking, I'm like "How fucking long is this going to...when is my grandmother going to die?" (laughs) It's awful to say that but, you know I start thinking like "How fucking long can this drag on, Jesus." You start thinking things you don't want to think.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no it does because it's like "Dude you're ninety and have dementia, you know, it's time to go, everything has it's time. So that my mom can have some years of some kind of quiet." It's awful but, you know? That's when she had the heart thing, I thought that was it, I was kind of not excited, but at least now there's some, but it's like "Wow, fucking A, Jesus." [00:20:05] (pause) Like I said I just, I've gotten better and better, I just can't, whatever, like I somehow have to brace myself and let it go. I look around me and see other people, other Assyrians, I like their attitude better about these things and that one way I like that kind of old school, kind of macho "Dude whatever, they're old, they're going to die." (laughs) You know? And they're not so tight, not so sensitive about these things, whatever, they're old, you do what you can and...it has to be that way. You can't let your sensitivity get caught up in all this stuff cause it's just a fact of life first of all but also you can't control, she's an adult, whatever, you can't....(pause). And even that in a way, that's become a little bit of a dark fantasy too. Now that I've thought it out and I've braced myself, now it's like a lot of things would change if my mom...The house would be mine, I'd be able to do a lot of things, I'd be able to, my situation would improve, you know?
CLIENT: So, awful to think that way but that's what starts happening. [00:21:54] (pause) Oh man I hadn't, oh my god, I've not even talked about the dreams I've been having. I saw this, I don't even have to read this one, I still remember. I saw this insane dream where the main chunk of it that was important was I ended up on some huge, fucking boat, I mean I'm talking like a floating city with tons of people on the boat and it was like one of the most beautiful dreams I'd ever seen. Like the ocean, things were passing, were just breathtaking, kind of like late afternoon, that kind of orange light, you know?
CLIENT: It was just super beautiful and like it was as if it were, I don't know, it was like cities but not?
CLIENT: A week ago, give or take, maybe less than a week ago, something like that. There were people on the boat I kind of knew but didn't know, I made some friends, I don't know what. Then I got off and even on the boat it was like a floating city, it was crazy and when I got off the boat, I had nothing. I don't think I had shoes, I had nothing, no money, but I was shy to tell anybody that so I was kind of walking around and this black dude met me and started taking me around and as he was doing that I was like "Where is this?" Kind of looked European a little bit. Then he gave me some kind of job. He was like "I think this will be perfect for you." Something like that but I felt good, (laughs) it was the weirdest fucking thing. (pause) It was crazy.
CLIENT: That I don't remember, I don't know if I have it in my phone but...maybe. I think it was before, I want to say it was...
CLIENT: I think it was that weekend but before the Sunday, I think. [00:24:54] Let me see.
CLIENT: Maybe, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: She told me that Saturday.
CLIENT: Yeah. Dream. (pause)
CLIENT: (pause) January 19th.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: January 19th was...
CLIENT: Yeah, Martin Luther King. Ok
CLIENT: 19th, 20, 21, right?
CLIENT: So it was the Saturday before that stuff happened, yeah. Actually yeah it was a long...I dreamed that my parents were getting divorced.
CLIENT: Yeah and I was against...
CLIENT: This is the beginning of that dream, yeah. I was against my mom, barely hated her, there were a lot of people in the house and there were people outside, I didn't know them but my parents...Oh, right. I didn't know them but my parents seemed to know them, it was like they each had a posse and some of the people weren't Assyrian. [00:26:19] That's right, I saw my apartment, it was all fucked up, it was under construction but it wasn't my apartment, it was like dilapidated but it had these rooms on the side that weren't rooms, like when I opened the door they were huge, empty, dilapidated warehouses. It was crazy. I was pissed and then there were guys in my apartment kind of messing with my stuff and they were kind of taunting me and I was pissed. The bathroom sink was leaking and I felt that my mom had done all that, that it was her fault. I yelled at her, told her I was changing all the locks, this was freaky, she said it wasn't her fault, they had to rush me to the hospital or something like that. It made no sense, I don't remember that, I'm right here. I went outside to tell my dad (laughs) and there was a big picnic table in our back yard with lots of people around it, people I didn't know. [00:27:25] My dad was on one end, my mom was on the other end and my dad was there but not active. He wasn't responding. Some woman, seemed to be my mom's lawyer, said they were going to sue me. (laughs) I told them to fuck off and go ahead and sue me because I would just countersue. I went up to my bathroom and I fixed the leak. I remember that, there was some rubber, I did something with rubber and I put it on the pipe. Suddenly after that I'm driving on some highway with people I don't' know, going really fast but I couldn't control the car and at some point when I thought there was either going to be an accident, I just didn't know...That always happens with me with cars.
CLIENT: Yeah, I can't drive. So that's when it just cut and suddenly I was on this boat, then all the sudden a huge, huge boat, lots of people, that's right, I was having sex with one or two women, they were like blondes maybe, I don't know, then I was buying one of them a drink and protecting her from some other dudes that were being really sleazy. [00:28:47] Like older business guys. And then I was walking around the boat looking at how amazing it was. Oh, that's right, some of it, as we were going by the cities, the water was amazing, there were like all these people swimming in the water and like waving at us and like even sculptures. It was like insane.
CLIENT: Lots of details. Seriously all sorts of people swimming. There were tiny planes flying around, like little WWI planes but they were kind of hovering. There were people in smaller boats, yeah, it was crazy and then just, I got to where....
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it's cool. It kind of ended up being a great dream in a way. Strange.
CLIENT: And also being on this immense, and not being scared of what's happening. What is all this? [00:30:06]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right. (pause)
CLIENT: It's probably like an old, I remember in North Carolina one time I got really scared and was crying because they half-jokingly told me they were going to get a divorce. They were arguing and stuff and I think I got upset, so my mom or my dad was like "we're going to get a divorce." It's a stupid thing to say to a kid so I started crying....I've never known if that was really serious or not but...[00:31:27]
CLIENT: They were going through some phase where they were arguing a lot, you know. I don't know what happened. That was actually not that bad, when we moved back from North Carolina they really went through a rough period, jobs, living situation, my dad having to deal with this fucking side of the family, kind of claustrophobic, so they had a few really like drag out, loud arguments and shit. So it could be some of that kind of...
CLIENT: Yelling. Yelling. My dad never argued but if you pissed him off, if you pushed that certain button, you wouldn't want to, you know, he would never get violent but you knew something was...if he was that angry then probably you'd done something wrong. [00:32:39] Something is, you know, like (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah, like only scared in the sense that you would feel really bad and kind of...if you pissed him off like that. (pause) But he never ever hit me. Even times when I kind of deserved it, like a little spanking, never ever. When I look back on it, even though my mom annoyed me, I was also a little punk. I'd really be in her face and stuff, you know, sometimes it's a little much too. There were one or two times where my dad really didn't appreciate that but he never raised a hand, but he didn't have to, when he got like that you knew. [00:34:05] (pause) My mother never hit me either but she would kind of, you know?
CLIENT: Well she'd get so upset or whatever, she really wouldn't hit me but she'd, like moms kind of do...
CLIENT: Not even shoving. Like she'd try to give me a spanking or something, but you know...(pause)
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: I don't really remember. No, not an actual spanking but kind of like a whack.
CLIENT: Or she wouldn't miss but it just wouldn't hurt cause it was...
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:35:10] But I don't really remember anything more than that. I barely even remember that. I don't know if she really did that or not but I feel like maybe there were times...(pause). The only time my dad was kind of violent was that story I told you where he broke the toy.
CLIENT: In the parking lot? That was the only time I saw him do anything like that which it's only been years later, it's only now when I think about it, I'm like "That's fucked up. Something's going on there." That was not about me, that's...(pause) [00:36:13]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: I was being stubborn, this toy, this...who knows? I was driving him crazy.
CLIENT: But to do that is...That's just one of those things I'll never know. You know they had a good marriage, they just had these phases I guess where things were really bad, I don't know or the thing I don't know is was it him? Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Because I don't know anything about his life, like did he have, was he super depressed or did he have other things he just not? I have no idea. It wasn't like their marriage was a sham or they were sticking together for me, they didn't have a marriage like that. I don't know what was going on with that.
CLIENT: I think sometimes a little bit about money, here it would be about my dad just wanting to separate more from her family and have her be more at home and not, she'd be out all the time with her sister and like...they'd be at the mall, she would just get caught up with her side. So I think sometimes that would piss him off and then maybe some monetary stuff and then just my mom being annoying. My dad just...there were times when he so didn't care what other people think or this or that, shit like that would just aggravate him. [00:38:00] I mean I don't know, I can't remember other than some family shit I don't remember anything specific about that so I'm just assuming it had to be something somewhat money related, status related. I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, getting mad, I remember her crying a number of times when he got really, really upset cause he wouldn't get like that often so I think it just...
CLIENT: Yeah. She'd be crying.
CLIENT: She must have I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: The thing I don't remember either side being attacking, I just remember some kind of, something pent up, just.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:39:04]
CLIENT: No, no way.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. No. In that way they were good, I mean I liked my parents, you know?
CLIENT: Fridays we went out to eat, to places, they'd take me places, they'd ...overall there was never, I had everything I wanted, I was spoiled in that way, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah but in our world I think at that age, I even, literally I didn't know that you could get divorced.
CLIENT: In our world there was no one divorced.
CLIENT: Yeah, I didn't know anything about that. But also I really was, as much as I dislike my mom a lot of times, I mean I was also tight with her. She's my mom. I didn't see anything where I was like "Oh I wish she would go away or he would go away." It was more that I didn't like when they would fight. [00:40:14] It wasn't all the time so when it did happen it was kind of like...not like a little disagreement. (pause) I went to bed early last night. I was like "Why am I yawning?" Yeah. The trick was, I had the panic, I was really anxious around seven and I was eating dinner with my Assyrian friends so I was actually really happy, you know? I was like "Fuck ." So I took an Ativan like at eight and I think maybe that's what I need to do because by the time it was midnight I just felt really, really, like nice.[00:41:17] Normally what happens is I'll take the Ativan at midnight.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It wasn't really a panic attack but I was with my friend and I didn't want to get into like my mom wasn't feeling well so I'm a little bit like... So we were having a good time, we're talking, we're drinking. I just...you know how your anxiety can get highlighted when your with people, you know?
CLIENT: So yeah, there was a little fifteen minute stretch there where I had just left my mom, I picked him up and I was still a bit...So while he was picking up the Chinese food I was in the car. I was like "You know what? I just got to nip this in the bud." I was totally fine. (pause)
CLIENT: Wednesday at one o'clock, awesome.
CLIENT: Thanks Tricia. See you later.
CLIENT: You know, just paying you every week and whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean ideally what I'd like to do is just pay a little bit extra each week that way it just kind of....
CLIENT: (thumping) Cool. I'm like completely unable to concentrate. I'm having, I realize there's a few things going on, well that's a problem, not the problem, that's the thing. There's a lot going on. It's like I'm really having trouble. I'm just having trouble concentrating. Yesterday I was able to write a bunch of paragraphs for this reading or talk I'm going to give so that felt good. Just kind of like remarks for myself or just notes and things like that so that was cool but I'm just....I don't know, this is like my Achilles heel, it's like I can't concentrate when things are bad, I can't concentrate when things are good. It's, I don't know how to work on this anymore but...Then I'm like "Am I being too hard on myself? No I don't think I am." [00:01:19] Like some things I'm calling myself on, like for example, the record. I know that's making me anxious, this and that, and I also know that I caught myself. I'm trying not to do what I did with the book. In other words I've already forgotten, there's a part of me that's forgotten about the record. I sent an e-mail to my band mates "Alright, thinking about the next record, the sound, deadlines, we should try to have rough mixes..." I wanted to, that's good but I don't want to, it's like I'm already thinking "I can do this better. We're going to have better songs and we're..." So I'm catching myself on that, I want to just savor this, you know? I made a record. I want to...I'm just like scattered so there's like...
CLIENT: Maybe that I'm concentrating, maybe whatever the step is beyond motivation, like actually doing, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's....because concentration would mean you start something and then you can't concentrate on it.
CLIENT: But I'm not even starting it. So...I don't know. If I tell any of my friends this 99 percent of them are like "Dude, so let me get this straight. You're putting out a record...." They'll take it the other way "Yeah that's called living and wanting to not do so much every single fucking day." They're like "What do you think we do? We work, we come home and watch Fringe." So some of that I get but then part me is like "That's not me though." I'm like ridiculously driven and super ambitious and I feel like I have something more to give. [00:03:25] I don't know.
CLIENT: That's right. Especially when they're not like pipe dreams.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean? Like I've written a book, I've made records, I'm not saying I want to learn to snowboard.
CLIENT: It's not like I want to be a great snowboarder now or something. So yeah that's...all I can think of because this has been going on forever is it just must be that (pause) there's so much emotional, psychic debris and clusterfuck going on in me all the time that maybe that's just...I don't know, I don't know. I'm always on some level, even when I'm feeling good, I'm on some level of anxiety so that I can't' just chill and just pop...you know? I've never ever felt that, ever in my life, where e I can just like...Well I have I guess when I was a teenager but I don't remember how to do that anymore. Where it's like...
CLIENT: Well yeah, but I'm saying I was able to do it though and it felt good, it didn't feel like I was escaping or I was, like it felt nice. I'd have my ice cold and actually I used to kind of like the fact that I was in my room and the family was out in the living room or something. [00:05:05] There was something a little bit cozy about that. I'm not disagreeing with you, wasn't like perfect but there definitely was, I mean I had no TV, I had to TV. I threw away. I had a little black and white TV and I cut the cord and threw it away. I slept on the floor, I was like a fucking little monk. I slept in my sleeping bag on the floor.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: I felt more comfortable. I just...I don't know. I felt more comfortable. I made my own bookshelf. I read, I wrote tons, actually wrote. I published in Assyrian paper all the time so clearly there was something enjoyable and doable about all that. I've never felt that again. After my dad died I just, I can't just like...With music that's the weird thing. With music I can do that. I don't do it every day but somehow I don't know what it is, I mean I can just pick up my guitar and I don't feel shit loads of stress. I just enjoy playing. [00:06:26] I don't know. Maybe I'm a better songwriter? The other day I sat down, I picked up my guitar, I sat down, I wrote a song and it's a good song. I didn't do anything it just came. I don't know how these things work but...So with music I've always had that. I mean I've had it with poetry too but there's something about that, there's' something about maybe because it's not physical or something? I don't know what the fuck it is.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: I know. See, I know. That's why I'm saying a lot of my friends would be like "What?" I already have enough songs for two other records.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I just feel day to day I'm not...something in me just feels like I'm not...you know? Then I was thinking maybe it's a different kind of guilt? Maybe I'm conflating art with money? Maybe there's still a part of me deep down that feels like I'm not like somehow working at something bigger, but is it really that I'm thinking about material ...you know what I mean? I don't know if that makes sense.
CLIENT: I think about that a lot too. I had a dream last night about being broke. [00:07:51] I'm really tired of, I'm not quite able to chip in to the mortgage lately as much as I want and just I feel overwhelmed with that. See, again, this is the thing. If I said any of this to my friends they'd have every right to say "Wait, let me get this straight. You have a full-time job where you work from home, you make 40 grand a year which is nothing to sneeze at and you live in your own house, your own apartment." Like that' s not exactly (laughs)...I just, I think...(pause) All I can assume is that it's half of this, well I don't know what percentage, but part of it has to do with when my dad died, some kind of PTSD, something happened where I suddenly lost the ability to sit down and enjoy....or even the drive to be like "No I just want to sit down at my laptop and write this thing." Then just my mother, that thing about just not making enough money and....I don't know. [00:09:08]
CLIENT: I know. Yeah.
CLIENT: Well I guess...you know what it is? For example because the Kickstarter money...Deep down I feel, not even deep down, I'm frustrated that I raised that much but it kind of wasn't enough and now I'm kind of like scrambling, I might have to ask one of my friends to chip in just a little bit, I don't know. Hopefully not, it won't come to that but...I think part of me just feels upset about that, like "Why the fuck are there always these stupid fucking issues with a nickel here and fucking..." I'm just so tired of that, you know? [00:10:30] At the same time you're totally right. It's like "Who isn't tired of that?" I have very few friends who are so well off and you know, people struggle.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: It is, yes.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right, right. Right.
CLIENT: No, you're right. I was going to say or they'd just be hobbyists. My thing is...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: My thing is I think of my job as the side, I mean like any real...not real artist but any artist. That's just what I need to do, I don't want to live in squalid, you know? So you need a job but there's a difference between your job and your work. [00:11:55]
CLIENT: Yeah, no you're right. And I guess on top of all that if I come from a family where they were supportive that would be different but because I constantly feel guilt about everything and everything's criticized and everything's...you know? It's tough to just feel...(pause) Last night my mom, I took Cecelia down to see my mom and she....Oh I was going to bring that up, that's the other thing that's been happening. The last several days, I don't know how long but when I go down to see my mom I'm just in a mood. I've been in a mood. I've been short with her, I've just been in a mood. Grumpy and down and you know. She's noticed that and of course when she notices it I get more annoyed. Yesterday I tried to be better. I was like "Why am I so aggravated right now?" And the thing is she always makes it worse because in those moments she can actually be very sweet. "Come on son, you know I'm your mom. You can talk to me. It's better to talk about things then to...something's bothering you." [00:13:19] Then I get frustrated because first of all I don't know what's bothering me and I say "Well you and a lifetime of this (laughs) is bothering me." What are you going to say? Yesterday we were talking, she was like "What's going on? Do you have a girlfriend? You don't tell me. You can tell me if you have a girlfriend." So I told her about Kelly. She didn't overreact the way I thought.
CLIENT: Well I didn't tell her she has a kid. There's no reason for that until things I guess get very serious. She didn't overreact that she wasn't Assyrian or anything although she did kind of try "If your dad were here I think he'd be upset." Then I just joked, that felt good. It bothered me but then I was like "If dad was her he'd joke at how freaking beautiful she is." So I showed her some pictures. This is my mom, this is my mom's family right here encapsulated. My mom was like "Wow. She's really beautiful, wow, is that her real hair? That color?" I was like "Yeah." [00:14:30] But then she said two things. One, I showed her another picture, just fucking stunning and my mom's like "Oh, wow, her mouth is so big." Kelly has one of these like very...some people have that beautiful all American teeth smile, you know what I mean? It is noticeable but it's noticeable because it's fucking beautiful. I was just like "What the fuck?" I think I was upset with her, like "What are you saying? What the fuck are you saying?" I didn't say what the fuck but it's like "What are you talking about? You're saying that a girl that looks like a god damn model has a big mouth?" (laughs) So that was one. This was the kicker. At one point she was like "Wow, well..." I don't know how to exactly translate it from Assyrian abut "Let's not hope other guys start chasing after her." Yeah. So in other words, I don't know what that means. She might get snatched away by others? So I was like "Are you?" So I just stopped and I just put my head down. "Is everyone better than us? Everyone must be better than? Right? Is this the problem?"
CLIENT: Yeah, in those moments I'm very honest. I'm like "This family is ill." (laughs) You know? I was like "So is everyone better than? Have you thought about the girls who are chasing after me? I'm not really worried, I have...she should worry about the girls chasing after me. There's nothing to....when people are boyfriend and girlfriend they try to not do those things because they care about each other." [00:16:19] I was just like "What kind of sad state of affairs is that?" To me that, not so much the big mouth thing, although that's part of it, but that comment, that's their whole...That's my novel. Just a one sentence novel. (laughs) That says it all. That's their life. My mom, even my uncle, all of them, they just can't...except for my grandmother. Somehow others...we're always behind somehow, we're always less than to some extent, you know? I almost didn't want to even show her the picture because deep down....
CLIENT: Well I knew, but also I've always felt that either there's some kind of resentment or even like "How did he get her?" If she's saying things like...and I don't take it personal. It's about all of them, you know, it's about all of them. If someone came tomorrow and said "Hey, we're going to publish all your works and give you a two hundred thousand grant," I think my mom wouldn't know what the fuck to do. Like how could that be? [00:17:35] Or my aunt, like an amazing fucking opera singer who doesn't pursue a career in the opera.
CLIENT: How could that be? I mean yeah, her husband, this, that, whatever, but how could these things be anything other than like just hating yourself? Right? I don't know, that' s what it sounds like to me, only people like that would say something like that.
CLIENT: And! I'm sorry and in the same conversation she's like...I mean she was cute, I got to say, she had taken a shower or something so she was doing that girly thing again. She had like pigtails and she gets cold so she had wrapped her hair somehow and was wearing this pink, fluffy robe or something with the little slippers. It was ridiculous. So we're sitting there and she was like petting Cecelia and she saw herself in the mirror "Son, your mom's getting old, there's no way around it. See this dimple? This dimple used to be up here. See now it's all the way down..." I was like "Mom, what the fuck?" That's such a clusterfuck of...a 72 year old woman still thinks...it's not that she's unattractive but she thinks she should be like 40 and still, whatever she was when she was 40. [00:18:56]
CLIENT: Bizarre, yeah it's totally bizarre. And no sense of like "Wait a minute, I'm going to say something about this stunningly beautiful girls mouth but I'm a 72 year old woman." It's one thing if a girls the same age, get a little catty, you know what I mean? Like "Oh my god, look at her mouth!" That's a totally different version of that sentence, someone looking at US weekly or something. Like my cousins or even me. You know as you're saying it that it's all in fun and absurdity. But when you're 72 and you kind of mean it or you do mean it and you don't have any sense of perspective "Like wait I'm criticizing this young...what the fuck?"
CLIENT: Mm hm, yep. [00:20:03] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. With all that said it was much smoother than I thought...I mean that stuff I almost expected. She did that to my Assyrian...that's going to happen with any, I could marry the fucking princess of whatever, Holland, and there would be something. "Oh the princess of Holland? There's going to be a bunch of princes, Dukes, rich men chasing her, how are you going to...?"
CLIENT: Or "She's going to make you move to Holland?" Like everything. Or "She's too poor, we come from a family of sophisticated...this girl, you can't..." There's always going to be something. Just like with my aunt and her son, you know?
CLIENT: They basically don't talk anymore. Luckily my mom, I give her credit, she's not that. [00:21:07] My aunt's family, at this point, I don't know if they could ever go back to what they were over nothing. (pause) So anyway, no wonder I can't...it's a little hard to motivate or get started on stuff.
CLIENT: That's true.
CLIENT: That's true. And enjoyment.
CLIENT: I don't have to read all of Moby Dick, I just want to pick it up and read a few pages.
CLIENT: Like I don't do things like that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or any achievement, anything. Yeah, yeah. [00:22:28]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's almost like...I went to the doctor yesterday for a quick visit and that's one thing she asked about he Wellbutrin or whatever. We were talking about and I don't know how this came up, but lifestyle, exercise, stress, whatever. I was thinking the one thing I have an issue with, maybe a lot of people have an issue with is I get into a cycle where I'm so stressed about being stressed that of course then I'm stressed and anxious.
CLIENT: You know, I don't like to hear studies "New study at Johns Hopkins. Stress causes headaches." Well no fucking shit. Like I hate these, you know? We're all supposed to not stress but everywhere we turn there are things yelling at us to not stress about stuff. And I think that's the same thing with that. I'm just constantly...either way if I beat myself up one way it's bad but then if I beat myself "Why aren't I, why aren't I just picking up Moby Dick and just reading a few pages and just chilling?" That doesn't help either.
CLIENT: (pause) And again for some reason I don't do that with music. (pause) Even the show. I finalized the bill for our record release show and I'm not like, something in me isn't like "Oh I could've gotten better bands." Immediately instead of being like "Hey, it's a record. First of all it isn't the fucking Garden. It's going to be great." But I'm already kind of like "Oh I don't know, are these bands that good? They're not going to be that good." [00:24:57]
CLIENT: Yeah. Instead of thinking like "Wow all these bands?" I had to say no to a couple bands. All these people are excited to play the show on a Saturday night at a great venue. I got my...Do you know Mission of Burma?
CLIENT: My acquaintances band opened for Mission of Burma. They're going to play the show. Like that's...I'm not saying it in like an idolizing way but that's fucking awesome! It'll be fun and it's great, that's a nice sound of respect and whatever. That's awesome! Yet I'm like "Blah..." (laughs) (pause) [00:26:06]
CLIENT: Oh, wow, I never thought about that. Whoa. Tricia. Wow. Yeah, never thought about...it's as if then I must not be or maybe I'm not that good so I'm making it seem like these other bands aren't' that good or something.
CLIENT: Wow. That's a good point. (pause) Actually that's a mind-blowing point, that's probably why...I do hate poetry readings but why aren't I at least going? Why aren't' I hobnobbing and networking and...on some level I must feel like I'm not the real deal or I'm not...somehow I don't belong or I'm not as good or...something.
CLIENT: Wow, that's....(pause) [00:27:24] Which makes perfect sense cause then I do what they do. I go to these poetry readings and I act above, which they do suck, but still I could be more, you can go and not take it that seriously and still try to meet some people and you know? (pause) Wow that's big. (pause) [00:28:05]
CLIENT: Uh, yeah. No I get it, trust me. I know it's heartbreaking. I mean I think that's why, like I think I'm underplaying...It's not just my mom I've noticed this with my family in general lately. Because I'm so done. It's like the Matrix. It's like now I see what it all is so when we're hanging out I'm kind of just done. Do you know what I mean? I have no energy to pretend that much or to get caught up in ridiculous absurd conversations and that's almost becoming a problem because...Do you know what I mean? It's like they might notice that and what do you say? It's an impossible conversation. "Well after many, many years I realize that this is all bullshit and you fucking damaged me." So, yeah it's heartbreaking. [00:29:11] it is, it's heartbreaking.
CLIENT: Sometimes it feels good, sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes I literally can't react. What's happening is sometimes they say things, I literally...You know sometimes when you're either so angry or so like something, you can't speak? I get like that. They're the only people that can make me like that. I literally, it's weird, I've never had that before but lately it's almost like I feel like I'm stuttering, I'm swallowing air because I feel like I'm going to implode. Where do you start? I'm just so...you know? That's one of those things where what? I'm not going to like disown my family. But at the same time it's like I have to relearn how to navigate around them. (pause) Or unlearn all the shit that's been programmed. [00:30:33]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's right.
CLIENT: That's right, no. Yeah it's like this avalanche, a sudden thing. I think it's also...but like you said it is also healthy in the sense that I'm finally kind of like me.
CLIENT: Cause even though that feels awful in that moment at least I know "You know what? That's happening because I see through all this crap now. I'm not letting it get to me." Yeah.
CLIENT: No, I mean imagine that if this had happened a few years ago...
CLIENT: yeah I'm all into this girl and if she said "Oh my god look at her mouth" or something that...at least for a day or something maybe or...I kind of forgot about it almost immediately. [00:31:46] That's just absurd.
CLIENT: It's huge. Yeah it's totally huge. And also like I said I've just become much more blunt. I would never say "Well mom all these years..." I just kind of backhand them verbally. I'll just say something like "Have you seen yourself in the mirror?" I don't care. I know that sounds harsh but...cause there is no other way, either I say nothing which I can't do if I'm going to hang out with these people, I can't not say nothing, or I just verbally fucking...it takes one second to show them that they're being absolute idiots. I try to avoid all of that if I can but in those moments it's like...Or the thing about my dad, like I just won't put with that. "Your dad would've thought this, your dad would've ..." I don't put up with any of that shit, that really makes me upset. I was happy, before that I would erupt, you know, if she did something like that but it felt good last night, I was looking at the picture and I was like "No that's.." He'd like pat me on the back and make a joke... like have you seen this picture? So that felt really good. That felt so like, I wasn't part of whatever the weirdness...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.[00:33:25]
CLIENT: (laughs)
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: To her child. Yeah. That's brutal.
CLIENT: It's brutal, absolutely. It's amazing. The only way I try not to...I try to contextualize it kind of to help myself and try to feel some semblance of compassion for her. It's not about Kelly, it's not about me, you know, it's about everything will go away. It wasn't just that "guys are going to chase.." she got into whole, she has all these fears that whoever I'm with, something's going to happen and they're going to get the house. Not just her, my aunt, all of them, they have this thing that somehow divorce, all the laws are on the women's side and they'll just take everything you have. (laughs) It's like "Look at you!" You're a doctor, you're blown away! Yeah, that's what I've been dealing with. Not just me, that's what we've all, my cousins, all of us, that's what we deal with. [00:35:04] Imagine for my female cousins. They're girls but yet they hear things like "Boys are clearly better than...it was better that you had boys." The whole thing is just...That's what's fucked up. My mom is the best one. After all these years it turns out my mom is the best one out of all these people. My aunt doesn't' talk to her son cause she has some theory that the girl...I mean I don't like his fiancée but she's not the fucking devil, that they're trying to steal her house from her and that's a whole other...
CLIENT: Oh, for me?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah. Or anything. You know the book deal? Well you know? like how many pages is the book?
CLIENT: Like that is a bizarre fucking question. I'll never get over that and when I told her "Mom, the average length of poetry books is 48-60 pages." She's like "Really?" It's like "Are you not a fucking poet? Do you remember the book you put out? It was like 35 pages." She's immediately like "Thick books are thick, people have worked harder on them or something." I don't know what it is but...Just imagine like every fucking thing.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: About Kelly "Oh [inaudible], that's great, one day she can help you maybe like that's good for the future, maybe you could teach there?" It's like "Well, yeah, maybe I could but that's..."
CLIENT: Who gives a shit? (laughs) When's Kelly going to make her phone call? From the video production department? It's, I don't know. In Assyria there's a saying, what do you do, laugh, you cry, I don't know what you do. It's absurd.
CLIENT: It's devastating.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. No, it's totally devastating. I just had a great idea. Maybe the problem is, the reason I can't make this into a novel is cause it should be a play? I mean look at how we react like when I tell you, how you react. It's because you're hearing me mimic the dialogue and the mannerisms and the way...[00:38:01] Anyway.
CLIENT: What kind of family has an uncle that's like this now? And I'm not exaggerating, I'm not always, I don't sit up super straight but I think I'm in the realm of normal, I like to just get comfortable but he'll literally be like this...It would be one thing if he was always like that and had a back problem but this guy, handsome, nice, sweet guy, you know? What the fuck is that? (pause) [00:39:30] You know Virginia Woolf used to, she had like an archived fucking journal, like all her journals, all her...you know what I mean? When I just said this I was thinking about this play or whatever I wrote a one act play when I was an undergrad. I wrote it like right before class, I didn't think about it. Got like an A and the professor was all into it. I have no idea where that play is and I was thinking about all the shit...in Oregon, all the cassettes I made, songs I recorded, some friends I recorded, I don't know where those are. And now in retrospect clearly because I didn't think enough of myself to be like "Wait a minute, these should all be organized and kept in a safe place and I should..." You know what I mean? Nothing. No idea where those fucking things are.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:40:48] If nothing else for just your life, just nostalgic quality, or just to see your progression. Even with [inaudible] not that long ago, ten years ago, I don't know where those practice tapes are, I don't know where any of that shit is. (pause) [00:42:00]
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, awesome!
CLIENT: Cool. Thanks, Tricia. Alright, see you tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay thanks. This is a hundred dollars.
CLIENT: So at least to...
CLIENT: How's it going?
CLIENT: So last week was weird. Last week was very weird. I was sleeping the whole week, I don't know what the fuck was going on but I was sleeping every day until like two, one. I don't know, like I was exhausted. It was really weird.
CLIENT: I don't know and it happens to me sometimes so like its hard not to get a little hypo, not hypochondriac, I don't know if it's that I'm snoring at night and I'm not resting so like I'm not going into a deep sleep. I don't know what the fuck it is but the weird thing last week was it was all week. I mean it was all fucking week. When I left here on Monday, usually I'll go to Starbucks or I'll kind of try to get stuff done. I got all the way to Starbucks and there was something in me, I could just feel it. I was absolutely exhausted. [00:01:29] I don't know but then with all that shit with the fire department and the...it was already an exhausting week. You know what I mean? Like it was a weird week, I was already feeling that way and then with all that shit, I don't know. But here's the weird thing, Friday evening I think or late afternoon I saw this video of this army vet who went from not being able to walk that well to like losing tons of weight and I mean he was on disability, he was all messed up. So there's this amazing video of this guy who decided to learn yoga and he went to all these yoga teachers and told them his story and they were like "it's really hard for you, you can barely walk, so it's going to be very difficult to do all these poses." This one yoga teacher kind of took him in and the guy lost a shitload of weight and now he like runs, he's completely changed his life. The thing about it is I was sobbing, I was like "Maybe this is emotional? Is it somehow emotionally fucked up all week?" Cause I was like sobbing and that's not...it's very...anyone that doesn't get emotional watching this video is an idiot but to like be sobbing like that. I don't know if I just needed to have a really good cry and then like suddenly...(laughs) [00:03:33]
CLIENT: No...yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so.
CLIENT: He seems like such a nice guy, you know, and (pause). I'm pretty skeptical so it was also like the way the video was made with the music, it's just made in a way that's...it touches all those buttons but just the story itself, the guy, I mean he was a fat, he had to walk with those two things, like crutches or whatever, massive leg braces and stuff. He was an Iraq vet and they show him trying all the poses, he keeps falling, I mean it's just...it doesn't get better than someone who seems so sweet, that's so committed. You know what it is? It like, I can't explain. Part of it...[00:04:55]
CLIENT: Well I mean it's just like, puts you to shame a little bit. I wasn't crying because of that but for someone to be able to overcome something like that and someone who so seems to deserve such a sweet person, it just...I don't know, I was sobbing. It was really weird.
CLIENT: Well it's just like I can't go to the gym for fifteen minutes to get a little bit of exercise (laughs). This poor guy is like seriously overweight, disabled, you know. It gives you perspective. That's not why I was crying but that's one of the things I took away which I think is what you should take away from it. That was the message of the video, "Don't ever think you can't do something." I think that's what it was. The video was telling me something no one else had ever told me, you know, that you can do anything. And the fact that someone believed in him, you know, didn't give up on him. [00:06:21] (pause)
CLIENT: Then I was trying to remember the other times when I felt so exhausted, "Is this what happens? Something makes me cry and suddenly I feel a little better?" I think it might be sometimes, you know? Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: It did. [00:07:29] I don't know anymore.
CLIENT: Was Wednesday the day I was saying the weird shit my mom said or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. I often don't say that I feel so tired just because it happens kind of somewhat often but yeah I probably should have mentioned it.
CLIENT: Oh, no, no. I was like, feeling really off all week. Really off. I mean yeah, that day that's all I did. I came here and even that day I woke up right before I had come here. Then I went back home, got back in bed and just kind of...took like a long nap, got up, kind of ate something, got back in bed, like I was just...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like it was to the point to where I didn't mention it to my mom. I was feeling like so "What the fuck is going on here?" I couldn't even hide it, like in the evenings, I was just like...[00:08:50] Yeah I think I was totally like...remember I was saying I was kind of going down there and not being talkative. There must have been...I don't know. Maybe that's just going to happen sometimes, like doing this and my mind tends to have so many, I'm trying to do so many things, maybe sometimes it's just exhausting. I don't know. Or it gets to the point where it's like a bottleneck, like things are kind of flowing but then maybe there are times when it suddenly it just gets kind of plugged up so until I have a really good cry or something kind of nudges me over that hump I just feel like drained or something.
CLIENT: Was it the weekend or something? Like last weekend? Because I told you either...
CLIENT: Wednesday. So yeah it was sometimes between the weekend and Monday.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:10:20] Like I was handling it kind of but in a different way I was kind of...you know?
CLIENT: Yeah. I know. Maybe that's what it is, maybe like I just don't know what to do with that now. I'm not going to run away from my hometown just cause of...you know what I mean? It's like how do people, and I know I'm not the only one, how do people handle these things when they're still kind of around their families in one way or the other.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean you got to do something you know? [00:11:38] And also you know what it was? In retrospect, cause the other thing I thought after I had that good cry I thought maybe like over the weekend at some point, I mean, she shows Cecelia the kind of love she never gave me. Like how weird is that? It's just unconditional, she just melts. Like I thought of that and then there was one point where my uncle was over right around the fire department. I had gone downstairs to fix the garbage...like I got a lot of shit done, a lot of logistical, fix some stuff around the house, the garbage disposal, just the day before replaced some of the fire alarms, the smoke detectors and that day my uncle was there, he didn't do anything but he just...because he was there it kind of helped me to get some...I was like "Oh, uncle can you, I'm trying to fix this drawer." He looked at it with me, he didn't really do anything but just another pair of eyes helped me to be a little more motivated. You know, it helps. It's not like my mom wasn't grateful to me but I felt like she was more grateful to... she made it sound like he did something. [00:13:00] She's just a jerk about...she just doesn't get it, you know?
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah, its stuff like that. Or like even yesterday I tried calling her all day cause if I don't hear from her for long stretches I get a little worried, like my grandmother or her in the snow or whatever. Her cell phone won't buzz or she doesn't hear it, whatever, it's like if I don't answer my phone after a couple times she gets kind of aggravated. I don't say anything. I'm genuinely concerned, I'm not annoyed, I don't give a shit if you're not answering, I just want to make sure everything's okay. It's just, I don't know, she's just a difficult person. That's just all there is to it. Like I said, it's not just with her, kind of with the whole family. I just don't...I'm just finding things more, in a weird way more exhausting when they actually happen, when little things happen that really annoy me and maybe cause now I just know what's what and I know there's really not much to say. I mean it would be ridiculous to have some kind of blow out, so it's almost like this very deflating kind of feeling, I guess. [00:14:41] (pause)
CLIENT: I mean I don't think there's much more that I could do. I don't, you know, I mean even if I go down there I generally don't spend that much, at the most maybe an hour, I'll just visit for like maybe an hour but rarely...it's usually just a few minutes. I don't know what else you know. I don't think it would even be really that different if I lived across town, you know what I mean? You're in the same...you're here. My memories are here, my...and I don't want to run away. I don't put myself in this, you know? I'm kind of looking toward my future now, that's my house, I don't want to give someone else a grand or two grand, whatever it is, for some shitty apartment when I have a home that I'm comfortable in. So it's a balancing act of I love it here, I don't want to live in another town, I love it here. [00:16:07] So (pause)...I mean I think it is what it is in some ways, that's...you know. Maybe that's one of the reasons why I've been feeling better. I have a much more (pause) like I'm just taking care of myself, you know, they're not going to change, they're not. It is what it is so I have to try to...you know? (pause)
CLIENT: Feelings about what?
CLIENT: I just feel like hurt and angry, you know?
CLIENT: I mean, you know, like...the thing is when I think about it, it's again the problem with all this shit is old feelings, because that day when I first, at the end of the day it seemed like she was thanking him more but you could argue it's because he was leaving and in a way she's also a smart lady. She wants to let her brother know, she's giving him a little extra to let him feel like she really cares that he comes around and it's...she's kind of sending him a signal, do you know what I mean? [00:17:54] But earlier when I first got home she hugged me "Oh, my son's here, he's doing so much today." In Assyrian she said very nice things. She gave me a hug so it's one of those things where if I had made a stink about it I would've just felt stupid, right after I had a blowout I would've felt like "Oh, that was..." So what I felt in that moment had nothing to really do with that moment. It's just years and years and years of just feeling like she doesn't appreciate or she... It all goes back to it doesn't feel unconditional, it doesn't feel, you know? She's a fickle, kind of difficult person who sometimes is very blunt and kind of oddly callous when she's usually not like it's this weird...its very my grandfather. [00:19:04]
CLIENT: Yeah but I guess when I say the past what I mean is that if everything else had been different, your mom or your dad says something whacky in the present, you deal with it differently.
CLIENT: It'd be much more like a little glitch, like "Come on Mom." There'd me more of a lightness about it. So that's what I mean. I think, I mean maybe not everybody's, but from what I've seen around me I feel like a lot of parents say some odd things that they maybe don't intend to say but that can be kind of hurtful, frustrating, whatever but when its coming after years of all this shit.
CLIENT: I mean it is pretty rare, she doesn't really say that stuff...I don't know. I'm not trying to defend her, it's shitty. [00:20:17]
CLIENT: What? No, no, it felt shitty. There's no way around it. It's awful. I don't even know what to say about it. I guess I'm so focused on the absurdity of it, maybe that helps me...
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: No, yeah I don't think I'm focused on...I mean I think I tell myself that to try to feel a little better but...(pause)
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: I've always been like that right? I don't really cry in here that much, you know? It's just very private I guess. [00:21:24] (pause)
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: To cry? I'm not against it it just...I mean, I have but it has to feel, it has to come, it has to...can't force yourself. (pause)
CLIENT: What's that? Oh, well maybe, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. Maybe that's what I need to try. (pause) [00:22:42] I mean what I like about the way I'm handling all this stuff is I think there is a lot to be said for having a kind of like "It is what it is" attitude and not in a bad way but in a...I don't know, I think it feels kind of healthy to be like "You know what? Sometimes this is going to happen. Sometimes I'm going to feel whatever I felt last week or whatever. You know what? She's old and she's not going to be around forever." That doesn't excuse shit but it helps me to just...I don't know, like in tandem with this, because this is so like vulnerable and three days a week. It's awesome, I look forward to it but I think the balance of this is, it feels kind of good to be tough in a good way. [00:23:49] Like without ignoring how she is (laughs) or whatever but just be like "You know what?" The way...you know how you handle it? You handle it by giving a talk at the Assyrian library, you handle it by doing your work. My art, not the job job but...You know what I mean? I got invited to do a poetry reading, whatever, the biggest kind of creative writing association is having their conference here.
CLIENT: No it's a national thing. It's like the MLA. My friend who runs this workshop, whatever the fucking thing, they're doing a reading and she's like "Do you want to be the featured reader?"
CLIENT: I haven't said yes yet but I'm going to, you know? It's really not a big deal but these are the ways...
CLIENT: Yeah, kind of. I kind of don't care but I'm going to say yes. I think these are the ways, there's no other way. My mom's not going to stop saying bizarre shit. There's got to be a day to day, you know, and I think that's the way. That was the thing about that video and I think...also part of the crying was again it's that mourning. I think part of the crying was I'm finally kind of getting this now at a gut level instead of up here. Now I'm like "No, I want to finish my novel and I want to do this reading." [00:25:28] I want to have a talk at the museum and finish my record. That's the only way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah I was thinking about it. Other than feeling shitty about missing our appointments once in a while, like things are steady, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I'm not some programmed, where I'm not doing my homework (laughs). I'm living my life and I don't feel so guilty about the Ph.D. or whatever. I think it's going to get done one way or the other at some point but I'm not sweating it. That's not my...I'm not a fucking scholar and I don't give a shit about it. I want to finish it for me. [00:26:33] So like I think that's the kind of stuff that does make me feel a lot better. I pulled up my manuscript for the new book and I was like "Shit man, some of these poems are really fucking good." I hadn't looked at them in months. There really is no other way. There is no other way. Also with Kelly, by not letting any of that effect...we had a fucking amazing weekend, we had such...like she's awesome. I was going to tell you this, this is the first relationship I've had where the sex has gotten better with the more open we've been...even the littlest thing, this past weekend was the first time I've really felt like we were really making out. Is that weird? Like really making out. And the sex....I don't know. [00:27:58] She's amazing. So that feels good. Like I'm not bringing any of that shit "Oh she's a little overweight, she's..." I don't give a fuck, she's fucking beautiful and awesome.
CLIENT: Well and that was the thing, it was awesome that it wasn't even a fight.
CLIENT: You know what I mean? Miscommunication.
CLIENT: That's amazing, we didn't even have any words.
CLIENT: Yeah and she was like "Hey we haven't talked in a couple days", she came over and that was it. I already see, like Friday, I thought we were just going to get together Saturday. She's like "Do you want to get together Friday too?" I can tell she's after that little, whatever that was, we both talked, we're both scared, she's very...it's different. [00:29:15] It's different. (pause)
CLIENT: I mean the whole week was too much but maybe.
CLIENT: Maybe. The whole week felt like that.
CLIENT: That makes sense.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Of course.
CLIENT: Right. Of course. Because some days that perspective works, some days it doesn't.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I don't disagree.
CLIENT: Well I just think what happens is like part of that side of me that just says "Well..." I mean there's kind of no time limit on mourning so it's not that that makes me scared but it just makes me feel like...the acknowledging part is definitely covered that, you know? I feel like the baring is like...that's kind of what I've been doing in a way. I know what you're saying but I kind of feel like...[00:32:38] I mean maybe the way I feel about it is like this is really helpful because when I'm alone I can like sob and not...the minute...you know what I mean?
CLIENT: To me that's what works, it's a very private thing to me. I don't know but when it happens now I don't feel weird, I don't feel bad, I kind of welcome it, you know?
CLIENT: It always does.
CLIENT: No it always does. It always does.
CLIENT: The last time it felt very disturbing was that time I told you when I first got to London?
CLIENT: That felt really unsettling and that was only because I just felt really alone. I felt like there wasn't anybody I could call or hang out with and I just felt really weird and alone and just unsettled. Ever since then every time I've had a sob like that I've always understood the clear reason, more or less, and I've always felt better.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:33:54]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I feel like that stuff at home was almost like the homework, like that's the stuff you got to...you know? And I do wish it would happen in here more, I mean it makes me a little uncomfortable but I've been doing this long enough, I'm fine with it, but that's just not...it's got to just happen naturally, you can't...
CLIENT: Hm.
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe.
CLIENT: I mean I've had the feeling, the actual crying thing is hard for me to do. Not hard, it's just...it just doesn't happen in front of people that I just...and I'm fine with that I'm not trying to hold anything back. Some people...but I do know what you're saying, forget the crying thing but...[00:35:16] I mean it's hard to, you know, because I kind of don't know what to say about it. I feel it, I know it, its shit, it makes me feel like shit. I just don't...do you know what I mean? Like I literally don't know what other ways to say that it makes me feel shitty or something. Maybe you're right, maybe that's a way to not sit with it or something. (pause) Remember when I had told you that week I had lined up some dates on Okay Stupid?
CLIENT: Well I didn't go on any of them. There's this one girl who when we started talking we realized we were already Facebook friends...so is it...I feel guilty now but I'm going to tell her and send her an e-mail like "Look, full disclosure, I had a situation that was a little complicated that's no longer...it's kind of gone to the next level." [00:36:48] Is it bad though? She's like a musician, we kind of have the same circles, she's a musician and studies like trauma and therapy. So is it...there's no reason to feel guilty right? If I just hang out to make a friend, have coffee with her or something?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well yeah because I feel like I'm being a little overly sensitive but I have no intention of anything.
CLIENT: Well I'm going to. We had made plans but I'm going to send her an e-mail and be like "Full disclosure, this is what's going on...you seem cool, we have a lot in common and we know a lot of the same people, could we just grab a coffee..."
CLIENT: I think it's because I care so much about...I just....you know how I get. Things are going so well with Kelly I feel like... I just want things to keep going well, I don't want any weirdness. [00:38:00] Which is why, that's why I'm saying I feel like I'm over thinking and being overly...you know?
CLIENT: Of course. There's a grey area but my feeling is obviously that part doesn't need to come up. She's someone that I'm Facebook fiends with only she's a musician. I have a feeling at some point our circles will overlap anyway and you know how I am. I'm kind of good at networking I just feel like you never know. It's good to...
CLIENT: Networking and also it is nice to...I don't meet a lot of people that are so interested in like trauma and who are also musicians. Just someone to...remember what I was saying about my friendships and like I think I...at this point they're like Donnie, Mike, Matthew, three or four people at this point who I regularly...I don't know. I just think it's important to start branching out. [00:39:12] (pause) You know what it is, deep down, no matter what? I'm still not quite over the feeling of being totally alone, you know? I think that's...in terms of like really feeling? That's the feeling. I just...I'm still not quite, its way way better, when I am with like Donnie, like I don't feel alone, I feel very connected. But because all of that is relatively new it feels like it could just go away or whatever. [00:40:47] So I realize how deep that feeling is, you know that I just feel kind of...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Well Cecelia's there.
CLIENT: It really is, I think.
CLIENT: I'll take it.
CLIENT: I'll take it.
CLIENT: Perfect.
CLIENT: Yep. [00:42:03]
CLIENT: So next week is when I'm going out of town with Kelly.
CLIENT: So I won't be here Monday.
CLIENT: So...and I think I won't be back in time Wednesday.
CLIENT: So maybe next week we can...so I'll miss Monday but we can keep Thursday, Friday?
CLIENT: And then the week after, yeah totally.
CLIENT: Yeah. Do Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
CLIENT: That's awesome. So it'll be 1, 12:50 and 11?
CLIENT: 11:30.
CLIENT: No, no, no it's awesome.
CLIENT: That's awesome. Cool. Thanks Tricia.
CLIENT: Remind me never to go to a work meeting with a bunch of women. (whispered) Shut the fuck up.
CLIENT: Damn women. Our boss is she's just a shut the fuck up. It's like the meeting was over within 10 minutes. They were like gossiping and that's kind of like not professional. The owner of the school gossiping about her employees which we all are. Anyway. [00:00:23]
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: No. She's really a weird lady. She's kind of not very cool, but she also is not, in a weird way, not stingy. I can't complain about my job. So, (sniffs) (whispers) anyway. How are you?
CLIENT: Good. (Laughs)
CLIENT: It's kind of nice out though.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Yeah. Is that okay?
CLIENT: (Deep breath) (rhythmic thumping) Whew, so. Kind of a big development.
CLIENT: The other day I sent out my poems, or some poems to like 10 journals. Yeah. It was pretty cool. And I was just laughing the whole time in a kind of tragicomic way. Like ‘are you kidding me?' This has taken me five seconds. I have a little spread sheet, everything. But, I-then I wrote to Jason which felt good.
CLIENT: Yeah. A long time. I sent him some of the new poems that I've been really happy with. Told him what I was up to. (Pause) (Deep breath). [00:01:57 (yawn) [00:02:12]. I still have some crazy, fucking dreams, again. Dreamed I was in Italy for some reason and I didn't have enough,, exact change for the bus. It was beautiful.
CLIENT: That's what I remember. Yeah. And there's some lady or girl on the bus trying to help me? Then I ended up in some kind of maybe hostel, something like that? But there was nothing particularly, I don't know, it was just nothing particularly memorable about the dream other than some parts were very pretty. I was walking on one of the aqueducts or something. It was really weird. (Sniff).
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, I was by myself and then there was this lady who was very helpful but then I think at the youth hostel I saw my friend, and old friend of mine who recently started to talk more often. It is one of those friendships where we don't talk for a long time but when we talk or see each other it's like we just pick up where we left off. It's great. But lately we've been talking a little more often so maybe because of that, I don't know, but ... (Sniff) (Pause) [00:03:40 [00:03:48]
CLIENT: Well, yeah. That part was very specific. I had four quarters and I was like, ‘this isn't going to work.'
CLIENT: Yeah. (Laughs).
CLIENT: And it's weird like I remember, and they were the tail side. I don't know why that was, like they were all tails. But, I was (audible) there's something at work here. How much, like ya know. And, the friend, he, I don't know how that resolved, but I don't know how I got off the bus or what I did, but I did somehow. I think she got off before me but I think it was something like, ‘I talked to the driver' or something like that, I don't know.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And then in the dream sometimes I was confused as if, ‘wait, am I, where am I? Is this Berlin? Or parts of it looks like I know it was Italy, but then there were parts where I was like, ‘what?' That's so weird in dreams. I don't know what that is. Like where, I've had dreams like that before where like there's this city and I guess this must be, I guess like the more you travel or something, this kind of stuff happens, but in the dream it seemed kind of familiar as though I kind of knew but I didn't and in the dream I was thinking that. Yeah, it's so strange. (Sniff) (Pause). Yes, so I don't know what happened. Maybe like (sniff) the last few times was coming here maybe helped. I don't know what happened but I'm sleeping better, not having as much trouble waking up. I somehow feel more energetic? I don't, I don't get it, but ... (Sniff) [00:05:20 [00:05:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. That's right. [00:06:07 [00:06:12]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: That's right it was about (cross talk).
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know what that's all about. Isn't that weird. I don't know what that's all about. That's a new thing for me. Yeah. A very attractive, like cosmopolitan
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It was, but it looked great.
CLIENT: Yeah, and there was some black dude that was helping me out. But that one was realistic, it was like as if he was waiting for me and he was like, yeah, you know, it was something like, ‘I'm sure we'll find something for you to do' or yeah, I just remembered I didn't have shoes on or something. I didn't have any money. Strange. (Taps out a rhythm).
CLIENT: But even before the help not feeling, like feeling ok, but, when it was before I asked the lady what was going on with it I wasn't like freaking out, ‘oh my god, what the fuck am I doing. I was just sitting there like, ‘I don't know, I've got to figure this out. Like I don't have any money, so, and I've got the wrong currency, so. [00:07:33 [00:07:37]
CLIENT: And in a weird way like feeling at home. You know? That's the thing about it, like I have snippets of memories of some, maybe this dream was there, too, but where somehow be in a city situation, that's both familiar and completely not familiar. But, you know. Holy shit! I just remembered another part of this dream last night. Completely unrelated. I was at as place that was kind of like an Ivy League. And I was trying to take an exam and, but it was like, ‘well, but I've never been to this class. How am I going to, and I felt completely-and then at the end-oh, then the exam kept changing like I kept trying to take up the exam but I'd look at it, but no that's not the piece of paper I just had. And then finally either the professor or the TA was like, ‘do you know your average in this class?' And I was like, ‘I don't know.' It was like, don't, you probably shouldn't bother, it was like you have a D minus, like this exam is not going to make a difference. Something like that. (Chuckles) Like the funny thing was I didn't really feel (laughs) dejected particularly, I just kind of left. (laughs). It was strange. (Sniff) And I think I got on the elevator and there was something like some like pompous professor or something on there and I think like we joked around with each other or something. It was very strange. (Pause) [00:09:13 00:09:25]
CLIENT: Yeah. All the same, yeah. There was no connection, but I mean, maybe because I e-mailed Jason, you know? I didn't bring up the peh (ph) you know, I don't know what's going on with that or what he thinks about that, you know. I did notice, you know, he no longer has his University e-mail. So I think he's like retired. He's done. Which makes sense. He's like 60, at this point just about 64 or 65.
CLIENT: I think some of it I'm realizing more and more and more, I'm just someone that's, I mean, I'm, I'm mentally intense. You know what I mean? And I'm, I take on a lot of big projects and things like that, yeah, so, no shit. Like, you know, I'm not exactly [00:12:32 [00:12:37]
CLIENT: I'm sorry ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, no definitely.
CLIENT: Probably not so much agitated because that's yeah, it's more like antsy and a little disoriented and then something like day to day, like today sometimes like feeling like excess energy or it's weird, like either I can't get out of bed or I feel like kind of restless energy or something. [00:13:37 [00:13:49] And see, and that's why the ADD thing that pops up, too, ‘cause I'm like, ‘well probably if I was more focused and feeling like I was getting just a little bit more done I don't know if I'd feel this way as much. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I don't either.
CLIENT: So, and that's not even writing anything. You know. So. (Sigh). You know. [00:14:35]
CLIENT: Absolutely.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. And now I feel like this access, I think it's like all of the same thing. It's like sending out that stuff is only one step away from actually writing the stuff. So I think there is something in me that's like, ‘yeah, see, that's it, like now I've actually-instead of thinking it up here and making yourself anxious, just try writing it.' It's the same with mu-we practiced last night, I don't feel anxious when I play mu-it's not even anywhere near my thinking. I just get lost in the music and I'm just loving it. That's because you're actually doing instead of thinking about doing. So. [00:15:25 [00:15:29]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Although that, that's gotten like 90 percent better after we had our, like, this past weekend was so awesome, yeah.
CLIENT: I think I was doing that because it feels like I'm not going to go to where I was with Samantha or these other chi-like I want to-so maybe in this case that was a little more healthy than not. But, yeah I know what you mean. Yeah I do have this, you know. I'm getting way better at it.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: I'm better at it enough that there are times when I don't do it. Oh, like remember that chick I said who initially I had a date with, but then I was going to tell her that-yeah, so I met with her. And it was awesome. She's really, like that's the kind of like, and the cool thing was that we were both like, you know, we need, we're trying to make some more different friends but we're like real friends, not just people we drink with or acquaintances or whatever. But the thing was, I was, the only thing I did notice outside of me, was that, I was like, ‘wow, I'm meeting this stranger in a crowded public place having coffee and I don't feel, I'm very comfortable, I'm not trying to impress her, I'm not, you know. So.
CLIENT: It's when I'm alone.
CLIENT: It might even be like just now-earlier in the morning I had time to kill so I went to the book store, yeah, and do you know the writer, W.G. Sebold, or Sebald, I don't know how you say it, he's German.
CLIENT: Yeah, he wrote the book called "Austerlitz".
CLIENT: Yep. So I'd read that some years ago and I saw it and it was like, ‘you know what? This guy's a monster of literature and this guy can fucking write. So, it was like, ‘let me take a look.' So I bought it. Could it even be that that triggered this because he's so like, there are no fucking paragraphs and there's just this amazing-and I was flipping, reading it and just remembering how amazing it is? And, you know what I mean? Like as long as that can trigger, ‘cause then when my voice is like, ‘dude, I just like-see? You can do this. You know you can do this. Just fucking sit down and you know.
CLIENT: Both. Both.
CLIENT: And that's, the self-criticism isn't so bad anymore. Now, it's more like, it's like a gentle ribbing. You know, it's like, ‘c'mon man, you know you can do this.' Like, what's, you know. But, it's still anxiety provoking.
CLIENT: I do not have any fucking clue.
CLIENT: I don't know. I still have no idea what that's all about. That's the million dollar question. That's what I'm saying. Like ADD, like I'm not lazy, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Suddenly giving this read, this talk and I'm doing another reading. I said yes to that other one, by the way, too. So, yeah, I, maybe it is getting better. I don't know. I don't know if I'm just, if it's as simple as I'm just way to hard on myself when it comes to writing because I can't even really start it, you know.
CLIENT: I don't do that to everybody, by the way.
CLIENT: Once in a while, someone's actually good, they're good. But just not often.
CLIENT: (Laughing) No,, you're right. You're right.
CLIENT: No, I know, I know, I'm less now of a hard ass about that stuff.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: No, that's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Nine out of 10 times I don't like what I'm writing. Yeah, yeah. No, it's true. It's true. Then I'll look at other people's, well-known poets, I'm like, ‘really?' That you chose to write this in a book? And then I get like, this cognitive dissonance and I'm like, ‘who am I? Obviously, people are judging this as ‘good'. A lot of people I probably respect, so why, what's going on here? I don't know. (Sniff). So, I think that that is part of it. Then another part is maybe especially with prose that I just, I mean it's hard for me to go there because I'm overwhelmed. I don't even know where to start or what to write or-poetry is much more like a pop song, you know. I can really just chisel it and that is more do able. But, something about prose. It's just really intimidating and I just don't know where, you know?
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: It also could be that, you know, once you do it and you start doing well, well there you are. Do you know what I mean? It's like when my first book got the box (ph) I was super excited. Then, I got over it. So, maybe there's that, too. Or not just that, but like, ‘then what?' or something. Do you know what I mean? It's like so then, (inaudible) I'm so excited for it but I already know, like I'm already bracing myself for like, 'all right, don't, you know it's not that big of a deal-nothing major is going to happen, and when it's over it's just going to be over. It's not going to be that big a deal. And a lot of those people there aren't even going to get what the fuck you're talking about. So, I'm already kind of tempering. [00:23:51]
CLIENT: Yeah. That's it.
CLIENT: Just like a show. I mean I've gotten so much better at that.
CLIENT: Yes. Like I would just have fun. It was, I can do that with music, but for some reason I can't do it writing prose.
CLIENT: Yeah, right. Right. Oh yeah, I was a machine, man. And that was,
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Do they-I was going to ask you-remember that girl I briefly dated-the one who had AIDS, or HIV or whatever the fuck?
CLIENT: Yeah. She-wow, that really was a long time ago-Jesus. She would do a lot of like group therapy. So, and then, what I was thinking with this PTSD, like I've never done that? But, is that something like I should entertain?
CLIENT: Well just because like I feel like as awe like this is one piece of an awesome, well not that this is the centerpiece of what, like you know, helping myself out and all that, and then I went under, but am I still playing it safe, but I mean like I-like it's like a relationship-like I found you and like I didn't like other doctors, I didn't like, I didn't like really just talk like this to any other therapist, so it's almost like it's very intimate, but it's also kind of safe now? Like I just talk to you. Do you know what I mean? But then I thought-'cause what you would tell-I thought, ‘wow, she's so brave.' And she went to this like, you know where, I don't think it was an HIV thing, it was like a, I think she went because she had that thing where she pulls her own hair out. Remember I was telling you, I think, about that?
CLIENT: So I think it was like people going through weird like, OCD difficult-I don't know, something. But, I thought, that's so brave like a bunch of fucking strangers, like that's so crazy. So, then I don't know why it just recently popped into my mind. I was like, ‘I'm sure there are lots of PTSD or trauma groups, I don't know, whatever the fuck, and I thought well, I wonder like, ‘is that a-would that be like an interesting addition, you know, like (I don know) (ph) [00:32:07]
CLIENT: It's very embarrassing. I don't know if I'd do it, but ...
CLIENT: Just talking, saying this shit to strangers. And also kind of weird to hear people talk like this, too, you know. Or, I mean I'm very controlled, you know people crying or being weird or, I don't know if I could handle that.
CLIENT: Yeah, well yeah, that's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: ‘Cause this, I mean mostly I was thinking, well what do people with PTSD do? Like, what are the most proven, you know, obviously this and like what are the things that help people with PTSD?
CLIENT: Oh, I see.
CLIENT: But, aren't there groups like for grieving or something?
CLIENT: I see what you're saying, yeah, ‘cause they want people to have a similar experience so that they can ...
CLIENT: Nah, nah, nah, that's kind of gay, ya know?
CLIENT: That's weird. I don't know, whatever. What are the other meanings though? That you said.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm warming, definitely warming now to the idea. It sounds like it's the next step, it's what I should do.
CLIENT: Yeah, it definitely sounds like it would take getting used to. But it sounds like therapeutically, it's the ...
CLIENT: You heard of this book-I think it's from the ‘70's. It's got a funny title, like ‘If you run into Budda, kill him'? or something like that?
CLIENT: Sheldon, maybe, something? I thought maybe you might know. I heard it's like a really, really excellent, you know, the whole thing about really is that you can't, there's something healthy about getting to a point where you fully realize that only you can, no doctor, no friends, can make you better. No religion, no fucking whatever. I think that it seems like a-because I was reading about it like, ‘reading this book changed my life,' and it's like the only kind of self-helpy book that whatever, I don't know.
CLIENT: No. Again, I was just like thinking of all the different ways, of things that I'm not doing now, like I don't read anything about-I just come here and I talk, but I don't, you know.
CLIENT: Not help, but I think there's something about, it's more like knowledge. Well, maybe not.
CLIENT: So, what ...what do ...
CLIENT: So then, what ...
CLIENT: Yeah, that's cool with me, but should I touch base if it's really bad or something? What should I ...
CLIENT: All right, so we'll just plan on 11:30. Okay. And, we're good for a Monday, right? Like I won't be here Monday ...
CLIENT: Cool.
CLIENT: I don't know if I'll be back in time.
CLIENT: Yeah. So like the week after we'll can probably...
CLIENT: Thanks, Tricia. See ya!
CLIENT: It's kind of dopey.
CLIENT: It's kind of dopey. Like kids. I don't know. Are they all psychologists?
CLIENT: They just don't seem like psychologists. (Big exhale) What's going on? (Exhale)
CLIENT: There's one really tall broad. I'm friendly, but they're still it makes sense now it makes sense. Like these people can't be helping people with serious problems. They seem kind of like college girls.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Heavy sigh) Well, we did it. (Laughs) (rhythmic thumping) This is going to be a fucking nightmare.
CLIENT: If the power goes out. I don't know why they're talking so much about the power going out? I don't remember massive snows. I guess I don't remember the last time snow made power go out.
CLIENT: Oh, is that what it is?
CLIENT: Are you serious?
CLIENT: No because it could be fun if there was power. I have no problem, it's cozy inside and that's awesome. I don't mind snow but no power would be a little bit of a pain.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Luckily, no.
CLIENT: Like, remember that a few weeks ago?
CLIENT: No, luckily, although that's when all the fire alarms went off. So I don't know what that was all about. I hope that doesn't happen again, but.
CLIENT: I, we don't know what happened, the firemen didn't know what happened either, like may have a little bit of moisture maybe or dust got in his throat, anything could have triggered it. But, it was a weird (inaudible) that was, it was the night of that crazy, so we can just hope. But, whatever. I mean that's just not a fire. I mean, but the firemen came and took care of it, but...
CLIENT: Yeah, it did a little bit because what had happened, also what had happened was I had slept late so I was like sleeping through it. So that people were banging, I guess people were banging on my door, so when I woke up
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So, when my mom had gotten, she had found the spare key, so when I woke up my mom was like in my apartment like yelling and so was like what freaking out and I was like in my bathrobe and I was like, ‘what the fuck?'
CLIENT: You know what's annoying me most? And it wasn't until yesterday but for whatever reason when I went to Target yesterday my card didn't work like (inaudible) you know. So, like fuck. That, that is like the cops knocking at your door. To me, I've had so many bad memories of that, like in years past, that just flipped me the fuck-I was like, that's not possible. Like, I can't be that fucking stupid. I know that if have some money in the bank. So, I wanted my card and got on the app, you know, it's fine but that freaked me out. And then, so then it set off a chain of like yeah, but you know it isn't as much as I thought. As soon as that fucking like check comes within like, what are we now, one week, exactly one week, it's just fucking decimated. Like I fucking hate that. And now I'm running the risk of by next Friday like it'll go like having nothing in my checking and I just have just 700 bucks in my savings. I don't know, man, that shit's getting really annoying. I don't know what to do about it. But I've got to figure out something. I mean whatever, a lot of people have the same issues but it's just hard. [00:04:48]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, it isn't, it hadn't been until this week because I'd been good, like I had you know, yeah, it hasn't been this bad. I think it goes in cycles, like sometimes you just get hit by a bunch of stuff that I don't know, just happens, but I just, maybe that this grant writing thing, I've just gotta get my ass, it's just a lot of stuff at the same time, but even if it was just a thousand dollars a month that would be more than enough.
CLIENT: Yeah, well because basically what I'm doing is not really paying my mom rent but paying her bills. Like her, her, there's one credit card that I pay over a hundred bucks a month on that. You know, electric, my electric, plus my insurance, what I owe my uncle. You know, it's like several hundred dollars.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. This. Gas. You now and I know I sound old, but I think we can all agree everything is expensive now. Like every three, even the Market, like it's 30 bucks here, 40 bucks. It really like, I don't know, it's a little scary. I don't, and the thing is I always end up feeling worse for people. Like I'm doing it, I mean I have a roof over my head, it's my fucking house. I'm able to do these things. All these people that are just fucked. You know, like that's, it's both horrifying, because it's like there but for the grace of god, but also it just tears me apart that there are these people that are just, man, you know, like on a day like this they have to take the fucking bus or they, you know, I don't know, they're working three jobs or whatever the fuck-they have screaming kids or I don't know how people do it. But, yeah, I think the grant writing thing, I think that will be great. Though I think it's hard when you're trying to do so many things.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I can't deal anymore with teaching. I'm just so burned out. I just can't do it. I can't do it. That's not true. I could do it. I just ...
CLIENT: No, I'm just done.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm just done with it. And, yeah, it's good money, it's cash but (pause) I gotta say there is something too about it. Like I lived in it, this is like perfect, in and out, you know what I mean? And it's not really hard because it's here, you know and I love this little area but I'm just kind of done with it like I just ... [00:09:51]
CLIENT: What other things?
CLIENT: The only thing I would maybe think about doing is like an adjunctive thing again except teaching literature or something like that, but.
CLIENT: Writing what?
CLIENT: Those are impossible. Creative writing and adjunctive? It's unheard of.
CLIENT: Two grand for three and a half months of work for like 2,500 means-I would do it if I enjoyed it, if I'm like teaching modern poetry or something, like yeah, all right, the students will be a better crop of students, they'll care more, I care, you know? But teaching 35 idiots that they're using too many commas when they're fucking 19, 20 years old is just like, fuck that. And telling them not to text. Like it really has changed, too, like when I first started there wasn't this it's different now. It sounds awful. I can't deal with ...
CLIENT: ... to be and yet we're young and we say these things, but it's true, like everyone's on their fucking phones or texting and just I don't know, man, like it's not like if they want to make me tenure and pay me 80 grand a year I'll put up with that (laughs) but using you like an indentured servant to teach buffoons is one thing I've thought of which is more entrepreneurial I thought of maybe like doing my own poetry workshop.
CLIENT: You know, just saying, ‘look.'
CLIENT: You think it would be weird to like ask for my former professors around here, like, look I'm thinking of doing this thing, what kind of tips, like you know, I've never done, you know, I know how to teach it, but in terms of like what I should be charging or how it should (inaudible). Is that weird to ask other poets? [00:16:41]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, a few other people told me about that, too, they were looking into probably if you take ...
CLIENT: I know.
CLIENT: It totally is. (Rhythmic thumping)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's weird. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't get that. I don't know what's going on there because, I mean I felt comfortable and taught five sections but you know maybe there's something about, wow, I'm really coming out and saying ‘fuck the academic shit, I'm a poet.' Like I can, you know what I mean, I think that's the difference. I feel like the university stuff is playtime, like you know I was teaching it but I had more of a bravado about it because I didn't give a fuck and I knew I knew more than these little whippersnappers so I just kind of like had fun with it and was kind of like there was the swagger of it. It was fun. It was nice to, yeah, whatever. Especially in London. Those kids actually care. But, this is more like I'm not pretending to be an academic.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. These would be people that care enough to want to be part of a little, yeah, that's right.
CLIENT: That's right.
CLIENT: That's right, that's right. Yeah, remember this is going to this is another little thing I never told you that's going to blow your mind a little with it, but I was like 18 when I first came back to go to school and I started [inaudible] like these are big poets that were there, you know. And at the time I didn't really get that but could tell there was something about them, you know.
CLIENT: The creative writing department is really strong. It always has been, like that would be an ideal, like, I love it there. But, and you got to submit stuff and be accepted even if you were an English major. And I did and I remember that summer, or the summer, whatever, right around that time I was like 18, I got a call from one of them and I was like, oh my god, and was like, ‘hello' I was like 18 years old. She was like, ‘listen, I just wanted to let you know that I walked to Stephen Cramer,' Stephen Cramer was the poetry editor at The Atlantic and now he's the head of the Creative Writing Department at Wesley, and she was like, ‘I've talked to Steve and he's doing a poetry workshop, you know, at his house and I've told him that you should be in it, I've recommended you.' Now, in retrospect, part of that could be she's trying to help out a friend, just trying to make some money. You know what I mean? But, when I got there, first of all he accepted me, but when I got there I was kind of like, holy shit, I was definitely the youngest person there and these were serious people. You know, there were only like between eight and ten people there at his house and these were like serious people. So, I mean I have that memory. That was the only time I ever did anything like that.
CLIENT: And, of course, I didn't finish it because that was the year, well, that was for a good reason I didn't know my parents were going to send me to Europe I wasn't going to say no to that, right? But, it was interesting. I didn't finish that. I went to Europe and then my dad died a month after I got back. So, it was like a weird isn't that interesting though? I never thought about this. Like that was my poetry, like, that's so interesting.
CLIENT: Yeah, like that was ...
CLIENT: You know, fucking Stephen Cramer. Like that I don't think the stuff I was writing back then it was good, but I don't know, but I don't think it was "Atlantic" good, but regardless, I was there. That means it definitely was and is now that good. Like, who knows, or maybe it was that good. Maybe one or two poems were that good. They were good but that's right, I never thought about that. But that got curtailed right when my dad died. It was for a totally different reason, I mean I was, how do you say no, never in my life ...
CLIENT: I had two Assyrian friends who were a little older than me that graduated college, very, very good friends and they were going to Europe.
CLIENT: Yep. Backpacking all over the place, you know one of those like two month or whatever things. So one day like I'm telling, I'll never forget, I'm telling my mom while she's in the bathroom like combing her hair or some shit like that, and of all, and this is my mom, not my dad, but my mom says, ‘well, why aren't you going?' (Whispers) what? Because they had been like, ‘you should come with us, ask your parents, whatever.' And I didn't even bother asking. I was like between my mom and how expensive that would be, you know, no. And my mom says, ‘why aren't you going?' So, literally ..
CLIENT: Especially when for me, like I was so shy, I mean I definitely take advantage of it the way other guys would. I took advantage of it like, ‘holy shit, I'm in Europe' and kind of like more romantic, romanticized and like more like a shy kid. But it was fucking amazing. I'd been to pretty much every country in Europe. Especially with two really good friends. I mean it was an adventure, I mean adventures. So.
CLIENT: And then the last night from Amsterdam to Paris to catch my flight it was like so the whole trip I didn't, you know I wasn't the type at the time to like make moves on girls, whatever, I wanted to but I was a shy, just wasn't. So, the last night I'll never fucking forget, I'm sitting on the train and some dude comes and sits next to me whatever and I'm like all right that's that, you know what I mean? And at some point this dude gets up and it's okay I found my friends and he just goes just somewhere else on the train and this fucking stunning chick sits next to me and we ended up having the most romantic train ride. It was so, it was very like innocent, kind of, I don't think she was selling (inaudible) but I think she liked the fact that I was or something. Like we were like snuggling and like I think I like read to her. I was reading James Baldwin at the time so I kind of like read her the short story I was reading and we had like a crazy make out session like it was fucking awesome man. And then I think she actually tried to get in touch with me here and my mom yeah, but I was doing something and my mom was like some girl tried to call. Did she leave a number? Nope. But that was her. She was like, yeah she sounded French or something European. (inaudible) [00:26:07]
CLIENT: No. Or she did and my mom didn't tell me. Back then my mom was much more ...
CLIENT: It was and now that I really think about it I never really told the story like this to anyone. Yeah. We almost got kicked off the train in the Alps. Well, we didn't.
CLIENT: Frankfurt.
CLIENT: Everywhere except Scandinavia, Spain and Portugal. Hungary, Prague. I mean this was the nineties, too, so it was much more exciting. Like, Hungary, Prague, I don't know, Germany, France, oh, and not the UK. France, Italy, Greece, Switzerland, Holland, Liechtenstein, whatever, all those other weird little places. In Holland I stayed with this couple from the States.
CLIENT: We stayed in a hostel together. Totally weird. I mean, not weird, but when I look back and like, ‘wow, I did that.' That's so fucking odd. Strange.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean it was amazing. It was, it was amazing. Absolutely. And you know I always like put myself, not put myself down but I have this image that I was this shy and you know, whatever, and that is kind of true, but clearly it's not. I mean if your in the Netherlands by yourself ...
CLIENT: Yeah, no.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then the whole family was getting along, kind of like the old days, you know (cross talk)
CLIENT: Yeah. The only thing that was bad he had hurt his arm at the, remember, at the factory. They were thinking about buying this grocery store property thing in the area and something was up, like he just, I don't know what happened with that. He didn't want to do it. Something about him, he didn't seem comfortable. I don't know what was going on with that, but maybe he was a little more depressed than he let on. Because my dad was very-both my parents-were very hard, they're hard workers. Even my mom, she might complain but she fucking works hard. So, and I think my dad's pride, he was a guy who got up at 5 in the morning, had his coffee, had a smoke, went to visit his buddies at the garage, then went to work, like just, I think there was something about having this injury that maybe made him feel ...
CLIENT: Yeah, it was only like a year or two before he died. So he was at home. Like he just ...
CLIENT: Big time. And also, the poor guy was probably scared. He was probably thinking, ‘what the fuck, we're buying this property, I've never run a store in my life.' You know, who knows. Maybe he was worried we had this one house and what if that goes wrong and so maybe he just felt pressure like that he had to do something.
CLIENT: Because a guy like that (cross talk) ...
CLIENT: I was thinking about that, how strange that is. Like everything changed. Let's say he had bought it and then he died. Like, you know there are all these things that could have happened, it's so strange.
CLIENT: I mean, to be honest, it would have been good. Yeah, that's a great property. Very good property. It was the store plus the fucking building with apartments in it. I mean, I definitely wasn't going to run some store at 18, but we could have figured out a way to just sell the store or something, whatever, we would have figured it out. So. In that way I don't, I do feel a little, I guess it's resentment, or confus-like I just don't know what stopped him, why he didn't want to I should ask my uncle one day why. "Cause I remember there were a few times my dad was really up like he was like, ‘I don't want to do it.' He got excited.
CLIENT: I think it was me and my uncle and my dad.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was there. I went with them to look at the store. And I used to like to hang out with my uncle and my dad. My uncle like loved my dad. So I used to love to tag along with dad, you know feel like part of the guys.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: I think so, yeah. I mean, this was 1991, that's (inaudible), you know where that poultry place is? There's that awesome sign that says "live poultry killed fresh"... [00:38:17]
CLIENT: I mean in some ways it's a typical pie asslian (ph) thing, like I just think that my dad, he wasn't ambitious. He had a job, roof over our heads. I think that's what it was, he was like, ‘what the fuck? I'm going to open this fucking store every day and sell gum and there was something about that that rubbed him the wrong way and in a way I don't see it, I can't see my dad even at the time I was like, ‘this is kind of odd', you know? But I kind of psyched my I was like oh, I'll work there, I mean I would have, but there was something about that. Because my dad was such a working class guy but also above that somehow. Do you know what I'm talking about? Like there was something about that. Even when I'd go to the factory to pick him up from work or whatever, going in there and seeing him, he just, you know everyone loved him, but he just seemed like, ‘yeah, it's a job' but somehow he's above that. I can't explain it, so I wonder if in him there was something more like, ‘what the fuck, I'm going to sell little punks lollipops, cigarettes to people, what the fuck?' you know? [00:39:21]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I'm sure, because we all have that. We want enough money to be kind of comfortable, but just chilled out, like you know? It's like, you know, it's about savoring life more than, I mean, I don't know? But knowing him and his brothers and the way my aunt is, you know, 90 something, 97 year old woman, no, like a 90 year old woman still smoking cigarettes, drinking coffee, going to the hair salon. She's living it up, you know, she doesn't give a shit. I mean she does and she doesn't. (Chuckle).
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Just something, yeah, there's something honorable about, you know ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: The only difference is I have done things like that. That's the thing. Or maybe for my dad it was like his dad had a little, I mean it was a very nice store. You know my grandfather sold little crystals, not crystals like, like a china shop so it wasn't a shitty convenience shop, but ...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Maybe there was something ...
CLIENT: I don't know. And my dad clearly didn't stay and take over that business. Although like, I mean he couldn't I guess because of what was going on politically and whatever all that shit, but ...
CLIENT: No, right. He just became a mechanic. He did buy a gas station but that (cross talk)
CLIENT: Sorry?
CLIENT: I mean it's definitely more noble I think but it also runs against the grain of the realities of what the United States is. It's not like Wittgenstein that means I got to fuck philosophy, I'm going to live in an igloo in Finland, I mean well that was the world back then and that's, someone like that could do something like that, you know, but here it's noble but your ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Thursday. I'll try to control my withdrawal symptoms.
CLIENT: Thanks, Tricia.
CLIENT: Oh, can I ask you a favor? Thank you. Ask you a favor? If, could you maybe hold onto my check until like Thursday or something?
CLIENT: I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Thank you. Stay safe and dry.
CLIENT: And thank you. See you next week.
CLIENT: (Laughs) Thank you.
CLIENT: What's going on? (inaudible) (Laughs) [00:00:23]
CLIENT: It's been a while. Ahh. It's awesome. Today they, even though you still can't park here you can park now by the river.
CLIENT: I got here like at 10:15. It's awesome.
CLIENT: What's up. (Laughs)
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm good. The trip was really awesome. It was awesome. It was good to you know, it's always we were both a little nervous, you know, the first time you're going to travel with somebody and it was a part business trip for her, it wasn't like it was actually a pretty, like hectic whirl. We didn't really do, I mean it was fun, but it was business, so (clears throat). It was awesome. We had like a great time. It was a blast. It was really, really fun. And I think like for both of us like the second night I think we got really drunk, I mean for us, really drunk, I mean not like sick drunk but really buzzed. Because she's pretty awesome like she (inaudible) very similar to that although she's even more than me a little bit. Like she doesn't really drink. But then if we're just having a good time, like we had this, like Tuesday night we had this great night (laughs) on the way back to the hotel we stopped at another bar and she, ‘can I grab a six-pack and just take it to the room with us?' And, of course, we didn't even drink it and I just like her, like I like that about her. Anyway. But, at the bar, the last bar before we went, like I'm pretty sure I told her that I was falling in love with her. I just ... [00:01:49]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I told her something like that. Yeah, I like ...=
CLIENT: No, no. Like I just don't remember my exact wording. But I said I think I just said, you know it was one of those times where I was just looking at her and just like I wanted to say things but I so I think I just made a little toast and I think I just said, I think I just said something like, ‘I'm pretty sure I'm falling in love with you' or something, don't know. Then I was like not that but then, of course, I undercut it with some joke I said something like, ‘I'm just falling in love with your body not with you so you don't have to worry about it,' or something, I don't know what the fuck I said. But, I don't know, it's all it's interesting. Quite a big deal.
CLIENT: I mean, you know, she's like, she's definitely and she's been pretty honest about this. She's like remember when I told you that whole story about the artwork for the CD and all that? I don't know if I told you, come to find out from her that actually, so remember it was her and her best friend doing it. And then I got all paranoid because the best friend said something, you know what I mean? So, it turns out it was the exact opposite. I guess Erin was like, ‘this is all you.' I was like, ‘you gotta get your shit together, lady.'
CLIENT: You can't, you gotta, you can't have so much armor up, or whatever. You've got to so I guess Erin called her out on it. And so she's honest about it. She does it's a weird thing because it's not like she's not like the other chicks I've dated. I mean she's, we're there. She's just not as it's hard to explain. She said she walks this fine of I know where her heart is? But she doesn't really say a lot about it. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So when I told her that I was falling in love with her, you know she didn't say that back to me. She was totally caught off guard I think a little bit and she'd got kind of like fat, but and she was like, ‘yeah, I really like how things are going' or something or, ‘I really like this' or something, I don't how she said it, but you know, I have my moments where I wish she was maybe a little more vocal, but then I'm like, ‘you know what no, because she actually is pretty vocal. I mean, for a girl like that to invite me to her business trip with her and I went to her meetings, by the way.
CLIENT: Because, you know, it's all art scene ph (inaudible) like you know, so you know I got to meet all these awesome studio heads for, like people who do cBrianons and adult (inaudible) and it was pretty fucking amazing. So for someone to do all that, that pretty much says it all. I mean, so I keep reminding myself of that. [00:05:10]
CLIENT: Actions are, yes, super like, it's very often that we'll talk about things like how well we get each other. Even like little fucking things. Shit, someone at her school, some colleague of hers, like this older lady she works with or something who is also kind of whacked and its school and they're all kind of kooky, gave her some cutout of something that has to do with something that has to do with children's literacy and you take this little guy around and put him places and take pictures and then they post, I don't know. So, we were (cross talk)
CLIENT: Holy shit. That's crazy. So she brought us and like that's awesome. So, at one point when she was in the bathroom I took him out. In the hotel there was a nice black and white picture of the skyline, kind of like an older picture of New York, like the Empire State or whatever, so I took him and kind of made him look like he was hanging off the Empire State Building and I took pictures to surprise her. Right? The last day that we're there we're having like coffee and she says, "oh, Brenda got the picture I sent her," and she shows it to me and it's the exact picture I took. So, I had this moment of, whoa, what? Wait, did I send that to you? It was like, what do you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, when I told her that that night I knew, I mean, it doesn't I don't believe in this shit where you're really drunk and you don't know what you're doing or whatever. On some level you kind of do know what you are doing. You might do it anyway and that's a mistake, but you did think about it. So, I knew that when I, if I told her, I knew I was going to be kind of, but then you know I was like, we've been dating for over four months. I think that's fair, a pretty average, if you're really, really falling for somebody. You've probably already been falling for them from day one. So, waiting four months to, in a kind of casual way slip it in, that you feel, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I definitely, I mean, considering what I've been through, yeah. I mean being that honest was not that easy. Especially ‘cause yeah, I mean she definitely is, she's not loose with her words. So, you know sometimes my mind will be like, well yeah you know anything can happen, but nothing's set in stone. She could be really cautious and then suddenly decide this isn't for me. I don't know. But that could happen anyway if someone's telling you they love you five times a day. It doesn't matter.
CLIENT: And then (deep breath) so I have my event next Wednesday at the museum. So, I think I'm looking forward to that. I'm a little nervous maybe, but I'm more nervous because it's like I'm trying not to think of it as, like, I'm just not trying not to think of it. (Chuckles) ‘Cause, you know, there could be a lot of people, there could be not a lot of people. I don't know. I'm just trying not to take it that seriously. But, at the same time it's my turf, it's my people. I do want it. I do want it to go well. So, we'll see.
CLIENT: I'm going to read for about 15 minutes from the book and the new manuscript and then we're going to do a discussion. So, it's basically like those French shows where there'd be like just two people around a little coffee table smoking and just talking. That's what they kind of want to do with like artists. It's going to be a series, every few months. So, there's a moderator who is a very nice lady. I've known her a long time. She teaches at a university. So, she'll kind of lead, just kind of like, we'll have a conversation, then people can like ask, so not so like I'm talking at ...
CLIENT: No, no, no. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: No, no. It's my event.
CLIENT: Yeah. A lit I'm kind of looking forward to it though. I haven't done a reading in a long time. One thing though that I did feel that was hard not to feel for someone like me, like we'd go to these places and it was like, ‘what is going on here?' Like, you know. Like these incredible spaces that clearly these people are making a shitload of fucking money and so it wasn't about jealousy, it wasn't about that. It was more like, ‘what's going on here' in terms of my, I don't know. Something just doesn't add up here in my mind and I'm not sure what that is, but I just feel like for the talent I have and that just bummed me out that I'm somehow, I don't know how I can make more out of what I have. Like last night I had a fucking peanut butter jelly sandwich. I was kind of tired. I picked up my guitar, played it for I don't think it was even an hour. I wrote a song that I fucking love. I just wrote it with Cecelia (sp?) sitting there, whatever. I recorded it. So, it's like what's going on here? I've got a shit like 50 of these, 60 of these, like I don't know. That frustrates me a little bit. I don't know how to ...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It was fun and I handled it very well. Like I didn't make a big deal like it was just a passing thing.
CLIENT: Yeah, but, no, it did, it did. It was like who are these fucking douche bags, like just thinking they're something they're not and you know and I would too, I guess if I was 28 and in a fucking bazillion dollar loft space where coffee, beer and you know, games it was like ridiculous, you can only imagine. All those clichés of these New York spaces, yeah, and that just ...
CLIENT: These are all production companies. So Kelly's the head of the internship program for video, film and animation at work and you know, she's awesome. She's taken charge of like, why are we not getting more of these students placed? And, it's a big fucking deal. So, she was sent on like a, go and meet with these, yeah, we met with the head of these companies that do a lot of these shows on cBrianon network. They do, they've done stuff for like a lot, for example if you watch certain horror movies, you know I hate these movies where you know it's not just CGI, but there's a lot of, oh, "Life of Pi", that freaking movie about the tiger. So, we went to the place that did, that made that tiger. Yeah, it was a really cool, big fucking time kinds of stuff.
CLIENT: These were all production companies.
CLIENT: No, no, no, no. Yeah, they're production companies, but basically they've, instead of like they're offices, but ...
CLIENT: they've taken these loft spaces and made these incredible spaces with incredible furniture and all this shit. So, yeah, there was just a feeling like I know that's not me, like would I have even wanted to do shit like that when I was 28?
CLIENT: Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't mean that she's had some kind of idyllic whatever, but I don't think her parents were ever against her being an artist. She used to be an actress. She used to work in the theater. Like her parents, it sounded like no one ever discouraged her.
CLIENT: And she's super tight, like she and her mom are really good friends type, like good. Of course, maybe with her she was the opposite, she wasn't really that way with her dad. Her dad was a very odd, I mean really odd, like the kind of guy that I guess they'd go out and he'd wear like a top hat. Like he'd wear costumes, like really odd, eccentric kind of guy. And for a while he dressed like a cowboy. Yeah, very, very odd kind of guy. Or yeah, I think she understands more, it's not like she doesn't understand.
CLIENT: I think yeah, it's just part of her ...
CLIENT: But then I was thinking sometimes in these meetings I was sitting there and it wasn't even that self conscious which felt even better. It was like a fleeting blip on the radar, like wow I feel totally good here. Do you know what I mean? Like, this woman we're talking to is the fucking whatever, CFO whatever she goes between London, New York and L.A. and here we are and I have no, I really don't give a shit. She's not impressing me one way or the other. I'm not nervous that I'm here with my hot girlfriend and we're talking to this dude who's an animator and I'm not worried, oh, what. You know what I mean. I had no and (inaudible) that's huge. I mean for someone like me with all the things I've been through, like that was huge. I felt no.,. [00:24:33]
CLIENT: No. No. And I never felt, you know, of course this sounds like, she was really cool, that guy seemed really nice or whatever. I never took it in any other way other than, yeah, that guy was nice. So, that is pretty awesome. So, that means something has changed permanently. Like that's a deep, deep change to be able to sit in a waiting area that looks like it belongs in an architectural digest, you know, mid-century furniture and all this cool, fucking stuff everywhere. The Empire State Building is on the wall or whatever. It felt like, yeah, whatever. I belong here. I belong wherever I belong. I don't give a shit.
CLIENT: And to not feel like I'm tagging along with my hot girlfriend who maybe has a better job or who's more together than I. I didn't feel that way at all. We're together and I was joking. There were a few times when people, depending on how the context was, she'd be like this is my boyfriend, Brian. Or, sometimes she wouldn't say anything, like ‘hey, Kelly,' and they'd just look at me but I'm Brian. So, there were a few times when it sounded like, because I was just quiet, you know. But, they'd be looking at me while they were talking and I'd just nod and I was totally paying attention. And then some of them who were much more polite they'd be like, ‘I'm sorry, what do you do?' you know? And I was like, you know, I didn't care. I'm the boyfriend. I'm here for moral support. And I'd make a joke or I'd, it felt good that I wasn't thinking. I just was not thinking.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was huge. And even about the stuff that did make me feel a little bit, those moments where I felt a little sad or like ‘what if' or whatever. Do you ever just kind of they came and went. (Chuckles) You know, whatever. I'm proud of the writer that I am. I'm proud of the songs I write. This is a fucking joke to me, these little artists creating the work, well that's totally different anyway, because then they're artists and I'm an artist so then I don't look at it. But these little, fucking whippersnappers, I don't give a shit if they're making a lot of money and living in New York. I'm going to be writing and making music forever and they're just going to be these business people that either have or don't have a job. I don't care how cool their office space is. I just recognized that it wasn't about that.
CLIENT: It's just that, but it's sad if you feel like there's been like a decade or two that are just, feel like blanks or something.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: And my 30s.
CLIENT: I mean, let's face it. I mean my 30s got better and better and better but it was all work to get to this point.
CLIENT: Whatever. Even 30, I would have taken it. Whatever, but. We went to dinner and hung out with one of her former, like the student who she knows who she's pretty close to. Really nice guy, like this super funny, awesome gay guy and apparently very talented. I don't think he's older than 24, 25? Yeah. Has an amazing fucking job. But again, I felt good about, I literally just looked at him almost like a little brother. I was like man, you should be proud, and I meant it. It was like, you know. Because I know that these things have nothing to do with that person, and I think it makes me feel good to have a sense of compassion because do you know what, if I couldn't I'm glad someone nice could. You know?
CLIENT: Yeah. Even the things he was saying, I could just tell from his background, but of course he was going to get to this point. Even stuff with Kelly was like, ‘what,' like when we were going out he was like I think he like kept all his receipts, like yeah, I write all this stuff off, or whatever. I said, what do you mean and he's like, well my dad taught me you know I can do this as an artist and in my mind I'm like, oh man. How wonderful.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: No, no. If it was I'd say it honestly wasn't jealousy in this case. It is jeal you know where the jealousy is? The jealousy definitely is with music.
CLIENT: Yeah, when I hear some young fucking band or you know, I mean yeah, this is good, I guess, or the level of fanatical following that they have, that kind of stuff does make me jealous, because I'm like, I'm sorry but I'm either just as good or better than this. I'm sorry and I'm being really objective. If we took a fucking poll and you played this shit for a thousand people, they'd like this. And that, yeah, I don't know what to do with that. All I can do is just try to use it as an energy.
CLIENT: I always thought it was the opposite.
CLIENT: Really?
CLIENT: No, no ...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I just ...
CLIENT: ... insidious ...
CLIENT: It's like a grudge or something ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right, right. Or the feeling that if I don't have it, I don't want you to have it.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: And I was genuinely, I felt, because I mean he's so, and I think also is that I love Kelly, so if she speaks so highly of this guy I was proud of him, too. So, it's like, ‘hey, man, really, good for you. You should be proud.' And I think I do enjoy, playing, I've noticed the more compassion I've been feeling I kind of enjoy playing a role that I didn't have for me. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Even if it's to a stranger.
CLIENT: Know what I mean?
CLIENT: I just want to open for the Shins or I want to play a bill with, I see no reason why that shouldn't be. Do you know? And that's hard. The only thing that keeps me going is that's how I used to feel with poetry, right? And I did something about it. But, and now I can't legitimately feel that anymore because all's someone would have to say is well, but this is your book, right? So, I'm getting there with music but because music is such a popular art form, even if you do put out a CD, until you feel like you have a certain kind of following, it doesn't have to be huge, but just something, it just that can rub you the wrong way a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because they're ...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Those guys are behind the scenes. I mean at the end of the day they're office workers.
CLIENT: In glamorous offices, but they're office workers.
CLIENT: You apply for a job and they got a job and they might get fired, they might not. But, when you're talking about art, if yeah I mean. For them it would be the same as them trying to literally create their own carton instead of just filling in something. They're literally people watching (cross talk)
CLIENT: Yeah, I do the hair. I do their mouths, you know, the way their mouths go. That's great but I can see that being some tedious fucking office work.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, big time. My aunt's that way. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yep. I think the thing that's making me I don't know I do like, more than like, that's putting it mildly, but something is definitely changed in the last year where more and more and more and more like that stuff's somehow not affect not only is it not affecting me, like I said, last night, I don't know I just picked up the guitar and wrote a fucking song I love. Yeah. Regardless of squashing, or you know what I mean, like something's definitely going on where not ...
CLIENT: Yeah. I was like just getting fucking pummeled by the waves for a while but I got my bearing now. Now I'm back to like, I don't know what's going on there, but I have songs to write and books to write and things to do and I can't, that feels better. The only thing that does happen is like I said, there's these moments where I handle them really well, but like you said, it doesn't mean that things don't get stirred, and that's tough.
CLIENT: That's what I mean. Yeah, that's all it is, usually, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. That I don't get. I mean how is it possible to pick up a guitar. I just don't think. I don't know. I guess it's physical and it's a melody and I'm so in love with melodies and I there's just no thought involved. I don't know how or why I wrote that song. I really don't. Like I don't know why I went from this chord to this chord instead of this. I don't know. Yeah, with writing. I think it's getting there. Something's definitely getting knocked loose.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm very intimidated by
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess that is interesting. Yeah, I had this feeling that after the pages and pages it gets to be. Maybe that's from my mom. Like how long, how many pages is your book?
CLIENT: Right. I mean, do you know Lydia Davis at all?
CLIENT: I'd check out her work if I were you. She's amazing. But, yeah, her short story collect-the one I like the most is called, "Almost No Memory" and it's, I mean a page, literally sometimes a few sentences.
CLIENT: My writing.
CLIENT: ... or the stuff I like.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: You know the novels I like are like that.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: No. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think that's what it is. That's why I read, because I don't think I could write prose any other way. I'm not a straight narrative type prose writer. I can't keep the poetry out. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Wow, thanks.
CLIENT: Okay, thanks, Tricia.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: The evening.
CLIENT: So we're on for one o'clock on Wednesday.
CLIENT: Oh, right. Wednesdays, Thursday, Friday.
CLIENT: Right. Wednesday at one, Thursday at 12:50 ...
CLIENT: ... and ...
CLIENT: Oh, so really all it is, is Wednesday at one.
CLIENT: Got it.
CLIENT: All right. Thanks. I'll see you Wednesday.
CLIENT: Come on.
CLIENT: Feels awesome. I already got like stuff done, got here early. (yawns). It's been a crazy fucking few days. Mostly good but just...wow. There's like so much to talk about I don't know where to start. So Sunday was my uncle's 50th anniversary thing, I may have told you about that maybe?
CLIENT: Yeah. So the church was doing a thing in the basement to honor it, well I think all the churches were but because my mom and I are here, whatever, they had invited us to, you know? It was really interesting. I went really for my mom and it was exactly what I thought it was going to be, it was a little bit like amateur hour and kind of pathetic a little bit. Not pathetic, I don't know what the right word is but something kind of amazing happens. First of all the priest gave a really nice speech about my uncle and then...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, 63.
CLIENT: Yes, he was the one who was the pope of...
CLIENT: So people got up and sang, some children got up and did...whatever. There was food and all that stuff but then towards the end they kind of surprised us. He has a very famous sermon that he gave a year after he was ordained. It's not because he's my uncle but really it's like the Assyrian version of "I Have a Dream."
CLIENT: I mean, it's unreal. So they surprised us by saying they had taken a recording and they were going to make a CD of it and they played a lot of it and the minute...I was like "Oh fuck" because that gets me, that speech...so I started crying, kind of. It just was very moving. [00:02:24]
CLIENT: He's basically like yelling, he's saying...the whole kind of "I Have a Dream" phrase is something like in English "Lord let our eyes be opened and let light fill our eyes," or something like that. It's amazing because it's not even particularly religious, it's really much more...it's a very human...and he's like pleading. I've never seen any film of it, I don't think there is any but I mean it sounds like he's crying kind of. It was such a bad time politically and just...it was awful. It's just a man kind of that's at the end of his rope and yet above it somehow. So I was sitting there kind of man-crying, sitting like this but the tears are coming and then on top of that they got the recording from this guy, this old guy, who would give tailoring work to my grandfather who kind of looks like my grandfather. I thought this guy was dead. I hadn't seen him in years and years and he donated or he gave his vinyl record, he gave that to them to turn into a CD. [00:03:54] So that moved me because I thought he was dead and then my grandfather...It went from being this kind of like blah thing I'm doing for my mom to a very moving...I was like "You know what, whether this is amateur hour or not, these are all people that have gone way out of their way to honor someone that died 50 years ago."
CLIENT: You know? So it ended up being very touching. So there was that. Then my aunt's in the hospital with high blood pressure we found out. Then I have my reading tonight. Then I'm like six hundred dollars short to get the CD's manufactured. So I don't know, I've definitely been very anxious, just stressed and anxious for the last five days.
CLIENT: It's a lot, yeah. [00:05:04] It's really not bad stuff per se, even my aunt, she's okay, thank god she'll be okay but it's just a lot. It's more the stuff it brings up it's not the actual stuff. Like the reading tonight. I'm sure it's going to be awesome but it's that I've never done one of these here in my own town, they'll be family there. I don't know, it's a little nerve wracking, a little bit. The CD, I hate that I'm going to have to ask someone to loan me some money. I can't fucking believe that but everything is done. The artwork, it's ready to go, it looks amazing. It's going to get done but it's frustrating that...Oh and the headlining band dropped out of the CD release show. I forgot about that. So I've had a headache for days trying to e-mail bands on short notice. [00:06:15] (pause) The good part of it is it makes me feel like "Wow, I'm doing stuff." I feel very engaged, you know, I just drove out, I paid the credit card bill, for whatever reason I just decided I was going to go myself to Sears and pay the bill. It feels more...I pay it early and pay more than the minimum. Something about that feels good. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah we have a Sears...the one credit card I have is a Sears MasterCard. Citibank MasterCard, whatever it is through Sears. [00:07:27] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah because when I think about it it's like "What is bad about any of these things?" There's nothing bad about any of these things. I was talking to Kelly, was over last night and I was telling her "I can't believe I have to ask for some help?" She was like "Pfff. So what, I've had to do that. There have been a few times where I was in a bind but I'm sure whoever you're going to ask is also someone you would be there for too, or you have been there for." She's like "It's always a shitty feeling to have to ask but once you do it's really...people that care about you, care about you, they're not..." [00:08:56] (pause) I think it's just more like a lot of emotion and a lot of stuff and a lot of adulthood, everything feels very adult now, do you know what I mean? In a weird way? (pause)
CLIENT: I was going to say I wonder if it's kind of cathartic Sunday. Even when it was all over I had to kind of go. I was still getting choked up so I went around and personally thanked the priest and some of the people. Even when I was thanking them I felt things welling up so I wonder if that was kind of, something about that, I've never done that. Or experienced that.
CLIENT: I think maybe I wasn't expecting it to be that, to that extent. But I guess I forgot about all this time I've been much more compassionate I mean I was a different person going through this thing than I would've been in the past. So I just felt I wasn't judging, I felt much more compassion for these people then I felt like "Well what a thing. All these ladies made all this fucking food. They didn't have to do any of this shit." And I felt proud to be honest. I felt like "That's my uncle." You know what I mean? I've never met him but my dad had a lot of those similar humble kind of...you know? I don't know. I'm proud of that side of my family, I mean it' s not that I'm not proud of this side but this side is much more standard immigrant story to a certain extent but my dad's side is sort of unusual. Not just their personalities but their achievements. [00:11:19] My cousin teaches at the university and I've done some stuff and my uncle... I don't know. They're just very well respected. That's an amazing thing for people to not forget you and to have such strong feelings. (pause) And I hadn't even thought about it but tonight, once I went to this thing, I was like "You know what? Like tonight I'm going to dedicate my reading to him." He died like two days ago, fifty years ago. That'll feel good. I think like right now it's mostly been like just me trying to calm myself, calm my mind, kind of racing and feeling a bit...having moments of real anxiety. (pause) [00:12:35]
CLIENT: Mm hm. (pause) I don't know. Oh and then there's another big thing. I was at George's house and we were talking and I had this great idea. I don't know I'm going to approach him, I don't know if he'll be up for it but I told him I want to partner up with him and do an online root beer business because this place now has by far the biggest selection of root beer's I've ever seen in my life. So we were just...he mentioned something about if I had time there's people that want all these crazy root beers and he's like "Dude, wait a minute. Why don't we, I'll partner up with you and we'll build a website. We'll find a way." [00:14:29] Like that's kind of what I've been looking for. Some kind of business that you can do that generates income where you're your own boss. So I don't know, there was that too. Saturday I was really thinking about this, I'm seriously going to talk to him about that and see if he'd be up for it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it'd be great and I love root beer, he doesn't even really like root beer, he just likes the business part of it. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah it's been one of those weeks where like everyday I've had one of those like band headaches, kind of tension right here so...(pause) But it feels good to know that it's all good, to know that this reaction I'm having is just me, there's nothing...it feels good to objectively or whatever see that. (pause)
CLIENT: I'm not sure I think it's just...last night I was thinking maybe it's just pent up stuff, do you know what I mean? Just pent up life, unlived in a way. It's like unnerving kind of. Maybe it's kind of like a crazy adrenaline rush or some kind of boost of energy like "holy shit I don't know what to do with all this?" Like things are happening, real things are happening. I'm not just like thinking of things then not doing them, you know? [00:17:27] I mean I'm sure it's so much stuff. Fear of like, like then what? Like being let down by the...like "alright, well, now I'm doing it. So what?" I don't know, it's a weird...yeah. But whatever it is has definitely been causing more of that physical thing that I get, headache, kind of feeling whacky, little...Like yesterday was the first time in a long time I took one of those Propranolol. Beta blocker. I was just feeling really...and also some of it is just the simple trigger of my aunt being in the hospital.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, just that is like "Oh fuck, here we go." (pause) That's where the PTSD, that's been tough. I can deal with it but it definitely triggers...hospitals, anything like that, that's a tough one. I've gotten really good at it but it's just, it's there. It's still tough. It triggers all this hypo, or hyper vigilant physical kind of stuff.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Now this all interestingly raps into last night. Kelly came over last night, that's going really well by the way but when we were sleeping I saw my first Cecelia dream.
CLIENT: It was kind of scary, like I had a dream about losing her, not her dying but actually losing her. I was...I've never seen a dream like that. We were in some kind of subway station and I was...I've never had a dream...I was like yelling, trying to run up two platforms and I was like climbing a fence, yelling. Oh my god! And when I saw her she was like in this red or some kind of carrier thing with mesh. I was so relieved. I was so fucking relieved. Before that or after that I saw this, I was like living with a bunch of people or something, in a house and everyone seemed to have a pet. At one point Cecelia had some blood on her and she was like scratched but she was still Cecelia, you know? I was like completely like "What the fuck?" I was like holding her, it was weird. [00:20:50]
CLIENT: Yeah. It was crazy.
CLIENT: Some of it might have been, I mean, she's been waking me up like at 4:30, 5:00 in the morning, she's been meowing a lot and wanting lots of attention so I'm not trying to deflect anything I just don't know if I'm sleeping and she's meowing and somehow it's getting into my mind or something? I don't know but...
CLIENT: I mean I love her, you know, I love her. So maybe ...I think there are times when it's just me and her and we're having like these crazy little snuggle moments where I think I'm like "Fuck man, someday this cat's not going to be around." Maybe that's...I've never had that where it's like wow. (pause) [00:22:02]
CLIENT: Just like losing. That things are going to go away.
CLIENT: And on some level me, we're all going to go, so I think if I'm not careful it goes to this very panicky place of "we're all going to die" one way or the other. It becomes a bit panicky and unsettling. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, of course. [00:23:37] That's why I envy so many people, I feel like everyone knows their...I mean what? I didn't discover anything.
CLIENT: People are somehow able to, yeah, exactly what you said, somehow it's way, way, like they're able to totally live their lives and somehow that fact doesn't do the things to them that it's done to me. The one thing I will say about that is I do remember thinking about that before my dad died and being like petrified.
CLIENT: So I think it was just an unfortunate, you know my dad's death just unfortunately as if it just validated something I was already sensitive about and scared of or whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right. [00:25:09]
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah. I've never had a dream like that. Ever. About anything similar. (pause) [00:26:20]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think ultimately that might be going on too. I mean Kelly, Cecelia, this event that I'm doing. I'm connecting with people in a way I've never connected before and I think that's stirring up a lot of things I guess, or things I don't even know...I just don't know what's happening, kind of, it's just happening. Like yesterday it was so nice, I went with the moderator, I went to the museum to check out the layout, then we went out for coffee together. It just felt so real. I wasn't self-conscious about anything, I wasn't feeling anxious, I wasn't...I think there's something that's doing things when I'm having those moments. Saturday night I was out with Mike and a bunch of people...you know the [inaudible] right here?
CLIENT: It's a nice little bar in there, they have a fireplace...It just felt nice, I don't know, I felt different, I feel like I'm connecting to people and it was crazy Mike and I...Mike never has these like touchy feely moments that much, not because he's a rough guy, we just joke around. It was really weird. Mike's like "Yeah buddy, you seem kind of like really happy and different than before. You just seem like you're in a different place." Just out of the blue. [00:28:01] So I don't know. I think that's all...just makes me...sometimes it feels like almost sensory overload or something, I think, I just feel kind of like "Who is this guy doing all these things?" (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I don't know. So far I've got like a really normal girlfriend.
CLIENT: She came over, we just hung out at my place, we drank, we talked, I got some snacks for her, we were eating cheese and hummus and olives...she came with me to Sears, we grabbed coffee. It feels so...I don't know. It just feels right, like I'm not overthinking it, I'm not overinvested in it, I'm not...I don't know it feels like the way these things should go or something. I think that's what it is. Even that like...it's all just a lot of stuff. [00:29:40] (pause) (drumming)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's awesome.
CLIENT: Mm hm. Monday, because I hate Sunday's, so that automatically means kind of very slow start on Monday. Wednesday is good. It's midweek, so I feel more...I don't know, ruminated or something. [00:31:07] (pause)
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: That's really weird. Kelly was wearing the exact same color nail.
CLIENT: That's bizarre. What the fuck? That's crazy. It's an awesome color. I think there's something...I like the idea there can be continuity instead of "What did we talk about Monday?" You know how I am, my mind is so scatterbrained sometimes so it's like "What the fuck were we talking about?" There' s something about...like that feels more like psychoanalysis to me, like back to back to back.
CLIENT: Mm hm. (pause) You went to Medical school?
CLIENT: Oh that's cool. I didn't know that. Oh that's why you were at the bureau?
CLIENT: Oh cool.
CLIENT: Right, right. You know what it is I wonder if it's as simple as just a lot of pent up emotion and that's why I feel the way I feel. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: In some ways that makes the most sense to me, because I told you that I've have a major bawling/crying thing and then I somehow I feel like something's unburdened or something. (pause) [00:33:43] I think there's a lot to that. There's some deep well of emotion (pause) that hasn't been able to get worked through through my art because it's been very kind of secluded and private so even that's been alone and now that it's out into the world slowly like the record and sending out poems and...it's kind of like it's uncorking something.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: It's just kind of drifting, I was thinking about lunch. I was thinking about taking a nap. I was thinking about the event tonight, I'm like "Wow this is going to be very interesting." Having like family there and...it's whacky.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean...
CLIENT: All of them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah. My mom of course, she's very proud. My mom and some of her girlfriends, my uncle and aunt, my cousins.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm trying not to...I just want to get through it so I'm trying not to go there but...I mean it is and it isn't in a way. This is what I do. It's a big deal for them, I mean I've been doing this...they're the ones who haven't seen this side of me.
CLIENT: Yeah, they're going to have to sit there and see me be of value. [00:38:09] Do you know I mean? And being taken very fucking seriously. (laughs)
CLIENT: Yeah and especially with this moderator. She's a professor who fucking really takes...I mean her, the museum asking me to do this...they're going to...it's kind of cool. I'm only nervous because like any kid would be in front of their family.
CLIENT: But I'm kind of psyched. I'm going to fucking kick their asses! (laughs) The more overall, it's like a hometown boy, in some ways I feel like "it's about fucking time that someone asked me." I love being from here and I want to do things like this so it is kind of a big deal. I have a weird feeling that this is also kind of like an uncorking because I know myself and I know that I'm a good speaker, I'm a good...I'm good at this shit and I have things to say and I say them in a fresh way and stuff like that so...Hopefully a few of them will have enough brains to ask me in the future maybe to do some other...I would love to do that. [00:39:35] To me that is my own form of activism. It's not that I don't care about my community I just think they're a bunch of dopes. People like me who are kind of either marginalized or choose to be on the margins have things to say that might actually mean something to some people. (pause) [00:40:49] I'm also trying not to make it a big deal, like it's a fucking poetry reading (laughs) I don't want to get to...hopefully it's the first of many and it's not...then I don't want to read into it and "why were there only 20 people there, why...?" (pause)
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think too what happens is that typical...some of this physical stuff, it's funny how it always happens when I'm about to do something good. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's like old, like maybe there's a way you won't do it, you know what I'm saying?
CLIENT: There's some small voice back there saying "Just cancel it" or....more negative commentator trying to just fuck with me. [00:43:38]
CLIENT: Just that...it's not really saying something like articulate but just the feeling of like if you're used to one way for a long time, even if it's a bad way, you just want to stay in your apartment and...do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So that causes anxiety too. Feels like there's two sides. There's the side that's here now that's like "Yeah, this is going to be awesome! It's not a big deal." Then there's still that small side that's been there, that was the dominant side, that now is almost insignificant but it finds ways to...(pause) Oh I made business cards too.
CLIENT: I thought that was a big deal. I don't know why. I'm doing this event I should have cards I could give to people.
CLIENT: Yeah it came out really well. It was awesome. Kelly was like "That's so cool, give me one!"
CLIENT: I was like...I felt a little douchey saying like "Brian, I'm a writer, musician." She's like "Well but that's what you are!" (laughs)
CLIENT: That's the thing though, but I did it.
CLIENT: Exactly. I was like "That's fucking cool man." (pause)
CLIENT: It feels cozy.
CLIENT: Oh, no, no, no. I'm not sick.
CLIENT: No, just usually when I wear scarves it just feels kind of comforting, especially if you have a little bit of a headache. It just feels like...cozy. I'm not really sleepy but just getting woken up like at 4:30 or 5 has been a little bit...just tiring a little bit. (pause) Oh and my friend Stephen is hooking up with some...I didn't have time to process this but he sent me a text of some small non-profit something or other, so he's like "They want you to do the grant writing if you could maybe do it pro bono or something like that." So I don't know. [00:46:25]
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: He was really cool. He was like "I told them to come to your reading so they could meet you." It was nice. (pause)
CLIENT: 12:50?
CLIENT: Cool.
CLIENT: (sighs) No fireplace?
CLIENT: Damn.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm good, just kidding around. So had a bit of a watershed moment last night. It's going to take a little while to digest this one. There were a little less or little more than a hundred people there.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah...
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't...I'm still kind of...I took all the books I had which is like a box of maybe 25 or something. They were all gone.
CLIENT: Yeah it was bizarre, it was really bizarre. I felt totally comfortable I read really well. Yeah, I don't know what the fuck to say about it, I just...it was crazy, absolutely crazy.
CLIENT: Thanks. [00:01:22] What I liked is there were a lot of non-Assyrians there, mostly Assyrian but a lot of non-Assyrians. Young, old, like people were riveted. It was really a conversation. People asked a lot of questions, they were very thoughtful. Yeah, it was really awesome. Like afterwards everyone was like very very genuine and very...it felt good.
CLIENT: Yeah, my poetry and so what we did was we...the woman who's the director of the museum got up to kind of introduce us but also introduce the series. So their idea is to not have like a talk but kind of like...you know those French shows where two people sit around a small little circular table?
CLIENT: Something like that. So like writers, artists, whatever. Then I got up, read from my book, then I sat down with the professor and then she kind of set up this like "Here are a couple of questions I had about his work, blah, blah, blah." Then we opened it up to questions and discussion whatever and at the end I read poems from the new manuscript. [00:02:55] Yeah it was crazy, really, really amazing.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah I mean I wasn't expecting ...I thought it would go well but I mean that's ridiculous for a poetry event. That's...so yeah it felt really, really good and it did feel good that there were hometown people there, not just my relatives, they were all there but my uncle was there, my aunt, my cousins, my mom, she was like sitting in the front row. Some of her friends just like...just that it was a hometown thing. I liked that, there was, you know, that felt good and yeah I just felt really comfortable, I read really well, I was myself, I made little jokes, little asides. [00:03:59] I was also very serious and I held my ground. The director of the museum, she's a nice lady but I don't know if she's a little ditzy or what but I was like very kind of critical. I was saying like how, you know, poetry is in a weird golden age in the United States but it doesn't mean that it matters as much. It's not like the days when poets were so dangerous, they had to be imprisoned and things like that and I was saying "We kind of need to get back to that point." So it's not like, you know, some kind of...it can go back to the power that it used to have instead of just like preaching to the choir. It's great that people care about it but it's all just preaching to other people that care, there's no...I don't think Obama is scared of any poets influencing people. The director kind of tried to challenge me on that and I don't know if it's because she just wanted to emphasize that this was such a successful event. She was like "Look at these all people, obviously they do care." It felt good, I kind of like stuck my ground. That felt really good and I was fast on my feet and I was like "Listen, my job is to be provocative, not to just say this is great, this is great, that's great." That's not the job of an artist. My job is to press buttons and to get people to think even if they disagree or even...so that felt good just "What the fuck are you talking about? I'm not going to sit up here and say oh isn't this great, everybody came here." I mean it is great of course, that's a given, of course it's great but that's not the point. The point is then we all go home and so then what is the potency of art? [00:05:51] If it's become a commodity like everything else? So that felt good. I'm glad I kind of stuck my ground. But yeah everyone had very interesting questions, thoughtful, people were really fucking paying attention, nobody's phone went off. I don't know, it was great. Just went really well. So yeah I don't know, it's definitely, it's going to take me a little while to let it sink in a little bit. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no question.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah and no I was very grateful for that. No I couldn't believe it. But I think it almost inspired me more to be, to push them and I think they felt that, I think people welcomed that. Afterwards a lot of people were like "This is the best event I've been to at this museum." Or some people "This is the best Assyrian event I've been to in years." There were people I'd never freaking seen...Assyrians, I'd never seen in my life and I'm from here. Some woman and her daughter who are living in central square, a lot of Assyrians don't live in central square. Assyrians are the type they get the hell out of...you know? [00:07:31] Very nice, totally American, like the daughter didn't really know Assyrian but she's going to Assyria. I don't know, it was awesome, really...it was great. It kind of leaves me hungry to do more now of these kinds of things. You know the Girlier book shop?
CLIENT: One of the guys that used to run it was there. Phil, this guy Phil. Was a really good guy I was kind of surprised to see him there. He works at the Public Library now by the high school and he was...and I respect his opinion, he's a poet and I respect his opinion. He was so into it and so...yeah, it was awesome. He was like "We got to get you into the Public Library and we'll do some stuff."
CLIENT: Yeah, it's pretty cool. I'm glad they...hopefully the video came out. I think it probably did. I'm just glad there's a document. (pause) [00:08:53]
CLIENT: Right, right. Well it kind of validated something that has been there. I mean every reading I've given has been good. I've never given a bad reading thank god, like it's all gone well, I've always gotten a great reaction but it's always been nothing like that. And also I've never given a reading where it's just me, usually it's a couple poets and you don't really talk you just read and whatever. This kind of validated like I can handle myself super well, people are obviously very...I'm just good at it, I don't know. I don't talk about them, I think I connect with people really well and for a poet that's ...not many poets can say that. Their work might be powerful but they're not the best...either they're too eccentric or they're too academic or they're too gruff or whatever it is but I think there's...I like the activism part of it without calling it activism.
CLIENT: So I like that, it means a lot. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: And I think what makes me feel good about it is I wasn't thinking in the moment. I stood right up, I was like "I'm not going to sit while I'm reading, I'm going to stand." I stood, I was not just keeping my eyes on the paper or on the book and during the discussion I was very comfortable, I wasn't...That felt, just personally, other than the poetry stuff, I was like "Wow, I'm good at this shit. This is weird." In retrospect, after I was like "What the fuck just happened?" [00:11:33] (pause)
CLIENT: Oh yeah she was very, very proud. My uncle, my aunt, my uncle I think almost got a little choked up towards way at the end. I literally couldn't talk to people because people kept coming up to me to sign books and I didn't have any wine, didn't have any snacks I was just kind of...way at the end when I finally went over to my uncle and gave him...he's like "I'm really proud of you," and I noticed he got a little...yeah. It was nice. Then my aunt, that felt really good, she was like " I thought poetry...I didn't think there would be that many people with that much interest." I was like "yeah!" It was fantastic. And that's the truth. I'm not, I'm from here there's not been an Assyrian event like that in years. That good, that organized, that professional, diverse, I mean that's...yeah. (pause) [00:13:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And it's energizing. Now I feel like "Alright, I'm...." I don't know. I'm just like adrift on a raft somewhere.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah it really happened and you know it's nice to know my writing is as good as I think it is, it does affect people whether they're American, Assyrian, old, young, somehow it touches a chord so that's really good...it keeps you going. Even academically I felt like "You know what, I'm not an academic" but I was bringing up like [inaudible], I was making all these...afterwards I was like "What the fuck!" Alright I guess I can kind of do a little...it was the perfect dose of academic, just a little slip something in there. [00:14:27] It was really great. A lot of my friends took the bus to get there. It was really nice. This old gay guy said he wanted to marry my brain.
CLIENT: I'm assuming he's gay, I don't know, he's always flamboyant and he's never been married as far as I know.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah. Oh man.
CLIENT: No. I mean I am but I'm not. It's going to take a little while to process but the good thing will be I have people like I'll talk with the woman who's the moderator, as I talk more with people and e-mail and it will start...Right now it's just kind of the adrenaline, kind of excitement. I do wish kind of that Kelly was there.
CLIENT: Yeah, she had to work, she had to give her presentation about her trip and that was at 5 so by the time...you know, to get back here by 7:30 was just...She was like "I can probably be there by 8:30," I was like "Nah, don't worry about it." That's another reason I'm glad it was videotaped if people want to see it or whatever. I'm also on some level just as a career I'm glad because you know it's good for [inaudible]. [inaudible] doesn't have events like that all the time, that's a big deal. So I'm glad I can tell them "look this is how all this shit went down." So hopefully they'll be excited about the next book. [00:16:28]
CLIENT: No I haven't.
CLIENT: I heard back from the guy who runs the publisher, the blog.
CLIENT: Not really taking it...I don't know. Jason I think can be like that sometimes, just kind of...I'll probably touch base with him again after this.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:17:39] Yeah, I mean, it's definitely going to take a while, it's very overwhelming, you know, to have all that reaction and people coming up to me...definitely was overload in a good way.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know, I'm definitely proud of it, I'm not...it's a good sign that I'm not kind of poo-pooing it, you know what I mean? I'm very proud of it. [00:18:53] There was like this guy that's a composer, this American guy, he's like a real composer. The director of the museum, he's her husband, was there and he's a very well-known violinist. When I was talking to these people I didn't feel like reverential...you know what I mean? It felt good, I wasn't even thinking, I was just talking to them. That felt good.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Exactly.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Right. And I wasn't effected that my family was there or wasn't there, didn't matter at all. It really didn't.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah it can throw people off.
CLIENT: I just didn't care. It's like when I'm in that zone it's like the work is what's...like I'm... [00:20:01] (pause) It's definitely motivating me to kind of get to focus more and...I'm realizing now maybe that's what's been missing all this time when I'm like "Oh I have ADD" maybe it's that I'm not out there doing stuff. Interacting with people. That keeps you going. Now I'm like "Oh shit, yeah, just cause I'm at Starbucks by myself I'm not...I'm working towards things that then connect with people in the real world." Maybe that's what was missing a little bit. [00:21:29] (pause)
CLIENT: Right, right. [00:22:47]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: I mean yeah, it's definitely, that's a good way to put it, like there's no groove for...I feel like there's just like kind of excitement and adrenaline and I don't know, different things just kind of like flying around, it's weird. Especially cause it's not just the reading, there's a record coming out, there's a record release party, there's just kind of like...So I think that's why I feel headachy or whatever it's almost like I just want to stay in bed or something, it gets...so unusual. (pause) [00:25:05]
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Exactly. That's the thing, all these years that's a long fucking time that...the person I am now was always there so now that it's out it's...(pause)
CLIENT: Mm hm. Well and the thing is ...the thing I'm proud of is that the reason I'm so good at it is cause I've been even alone or even with all that crap I've been working towards this. When you're 16, 15, whatever, you're sitting there trying to write serious poems, that's not just unusual but that's your apprenticeship, you're working towards this shit. [00:26:23] No matter what once I get up there it seems like "Oh yeah, this is what I'm supposed to be doing." That I definitely feel like wow, it's like against a lot of odds. And the same with music, it's like sometimes that fantasy world...as long as you're working, not just thinking, but I had the fantasy world but I was actually writing, I was composing, so in a way its preparing...that little bit of cockiness or like I'm meant to do whatever when the time comes you just kind of impersonate...what's the word?
CLIENT: You embody that. You're not faking, you're not...it's like you've been kind of training to do this. (pause) [00:27:40] It was really...I mean I'm just taken aback by the whole thing. When I think of all the people that were there, like those Assyrian friends I was telling you about were kind of like older brothers or whatever, they were all there and like people that I hadn't seen in years showed up. It was really...
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Friends were there.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Even that girl, there was this Assyrian girl I was so like smitten with years ago. I don't know if I ever told you about this. There were three sisters...
CLIENT: Yeah. So she was there with her mom, I thought that was really cool. And her mom, I didn't know her mom was such a poetry fan, she was like completely...and she knew my uncle really well years ago so she got like a little teary eyed cause I dedicated it to my uncle and...
CLIENT: Yeah, I think she was there at his death bed or something.
CLIENT: It was so crazy I didn't get a chance to concentrate but yeah she was very emotional, she's like "When he died it ripped my heart, I was like a little girl, not a little girl but.."
CLIENT: A girl, yeah. [00:29:20] So yeah it was a funky combination of people. (pause)
CLIENT: That's right.
CLIENT: That's right and actually that's what I felt proud of too, I was like "You know what, forget the poems..." I'm thinking this now but that's because of me, that's my network. That's my friendships and my connections to people that made that happen. Yeah it's the poems but people have to care enough about a person to fucking brave a freezing Wednesday night and that felt awesome. "This is how you do an event." It's not some fucking little tribal (laughs) bullshit amateur hour. You open it up to all kinds of people and you have a real conversation and we talked about Assyrian things and then people who weren't Assyrian said some things like "I can relate to that cause blah blah blah." That was my whole point that I'm not an Assyrian...I'm not even an American...I'm just an artist, that's all. [00:31:10] That felt really good, I'm proud of that. Hopefully it'll mean future, being asked to give little talks or whatever, that'd be great. (pause) I was really psyched, some people asked me about using art to work through emotions and all that it just felt so good to be like "I don't believe in that." (laughs) Art's not a therapy session, you know? If you're a hobbyist and it is, that's great, you should do that. People that are trying to make things that are beyond themselves, it's not about working through your issues. It felt good to not let myself get like...cause you want to appease people, it felt good to be like...I was a little bit of a not a hard ass, but I was very direct and confident in my opinions. [00:32:50] At one point when the director was saying that I was like "My job is to be provocative" and he said "I'm perfectly happy to contradict myself." That's awesome! I was like my job is not to be some kind of logical...I'm an artist so my job is to contradict myself, to be provocative and to just make art. That felt really good.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I said I could come back next week and say "Oh, I was thinking about it, she might be right." But that's fine with me.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right. [00:34:03] (laughs) At one point when that composer was saying something about the Soviet Union and artists, like it really mattered, they kind of killed Mayakovski and Shostakovich, all this stuff, I made a joke "The day they the government starts assassinating Rita Dove and Maya Angelou that's the day when poetry is going to start to matter around here." I don't want them to be killed but when Obama's scared of a poet and decides to imprison them that's when something's going on.
CLIENT: It was interesting though that there were no...I'm not surprised but no one came like from the paper where I was the editor.
CLIENT: No one came from there, no one came from the other Assyrian research organization, no one came from any of the universities. There was what's her name? There's like this Professor Emeritus of Art History that's Assyrian, she was there but at this point she's...It was a little I don't know. That kind of made my point for me that it's a little fucking exclusive club that god forbid someone has an amazing event that kind of puts them in their place a little bit. I thought that was really interesting. (pause)
CLIENT: It's part of the problem. It's like it's not their event so why should I go? They're not...they haven't been asked to speak so why should they go and cheer someone else on? And I think they know me enough to know that I'm different and I do shit outside of the Assyrian world, that I'm kind of a threat to them a little bit. I mean I'm not, it's nonsense but just in those kinds of settings that I can talk, I can win people over, I can really hold people's attention. They have a monopoly on that. [00:37:04] Like I've never been asked to speak at any April 24th things. I don't know why but I know the day I do is...those are the most boring, regurgitated non-sensical events, I don't go to any of them but if I ever do go it's because I think I would do really, really well. I think people would be...but that doesn't really serve their interest because then I'm kind of getting attention and I'm kind of you know, stepping on their toes a little bit. That's what happens I think in these small little ethnic bullshit little circles. Everything's a power game, that' s their little world, they're powerful people in that little world.
CLIENT: People that run these papers or like the research center or yeah some of the professors or other organization people. [00:38:15] The same fucking people year after year, they just have a foothold. I mean that research organization in Belmont has very close ties to the jackass here at the university. They never ask me to speak there, they know me super well. Even before, I'm from here, they know me. I don't think they even sell my book in their store so it's a little douchey. Not a little douchey, a lot douchey.
CLIENT: It's a combination. Some of it's just underappreciating what I do and just kind of like "Well poetry, I don't know what he does, rock n roll, something." There's a lot of that I think but then I really think there's also, the ones that do know me know that I'm....how well liked I am, that I get along with...they know who the fucking deal is so they're like "No, why should we let him into our country club? This is my domain." I know who the players are, we have a little thing going here and it works cause they're all fucking boring and they all say the same shit over and over again and that works for them. [00:39:34] And also because they know I'll criticize them too, I'm not going to...you know? I have no affiliation, I don't give a shit. I operate outside of Assyrian stuff so...I have no problem saying things that need to be said. It's interesting.
CLIENT: That's a good point too. I do wonder about that sometimes. Some of it could be they're not even thinking about me.
CLIENT: Maybe they'd love to have me, not all of them, some of them I think I'm right about but it could be that some of them are just living their lives and everyone's busy and maybe they'd love to have me do something, who knows? So you're right. I'm not trying to...they're not sitting around finding ways to keep me out of something. [00:40:49]
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: You're totally right. I think what it probably is, is a tiny percentage I'm right about and the rest of it I'm not right about. That's how I see it.
CLIENT: That's...[00:41:58]
CLIENT: It has nothing to do with me. Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: That's right. That doesn't become such a me versus them kind of thing. No you're absolutely right. You could even argue as much as my experience at that newspaper wasn't great and I wasn't really treated the way I should have been, the fact is they gave me the job at a very young age and that job only goes to people that are party members of that political party. I'm not. I think I'm one of the only very, very few people that have gotten the editor job and not been...so that says something.
CLIENT: You know, so yeah it didn't go great and they're kind of like dumbasses, whatever, but it's still a gesture, it's something. So no, you're right. [00:43:12]
CLIENT: 11:30?
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks Tricia.
CLIENT: Have a good day.
CLIENT: Hey. You don't need that today.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Damn it.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Damn it what?
CLIENT: Oh, I don't know. I always say damn it. It's part of the shtick, you don't know the shtick?
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Maybe not yeah.
CLIENT: It's really nice out actually. I was thinking about something on the way here, I was thinking the other thing that might be causing me like anxiety when I'm here now is I was noticing when I'm here, I'm anxious now. I'm not anxious when I'm not here as much, it comes and goes obviously. It's because things have changed so much like sometimes I don't know what to talk about. I guess that's good in a way even though I know of course there's a shitload of stuff to....but yeah, it's just so different that I think "What should I talk about?" Not all the time of course but lately there have been some days where I'm like... [00:01:44]
CLIENT: The one thing I can say is it didn't take my mom long to go back to her old self. Yesterday I stopped by to visit her, take Cecelia down and she just...I just feel bad for her now, it didn't bother me at all but she still couldn't...it's weird how she went...at the event she was genuinely proud, she wasn't faking it, she hugged me, she whispered "I love you, I'm so proud of you" in my ear but then last night she was back to herself, she was like "The event went really well..." but there was something kind of holding back a little bit and she always does this with things like my music or writing, at the end of whatever, its not really a conversation cause I don't even engage her that much but she'll just kind of give this defeatist "Well good luck son, you're working hard, you deserve it," but it's a very kind of like "hmm" so I don't know if she's just projecting her own...well she clearly is actually, it's her own I don' t know what but it's just sad. Now it's just sad. [00:03:13] And the thing is I didn't miss a beat. I was like "Well it was more than a success. That was the best Assyrian organized event here in years." There were over a hundred fucking...and they weren't all...yeah. I let her know very clearly that I deserved it, it was an amazing event, blah, blah, blah, whatever but it's just sad that...sad for her. It's too bad.
CLIENT: Yeah because really what do you need to see? Do you know what I mean? Like that's very strange, now I'm just baffled by it. It's unfortunate.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's strange. [00:04:36]
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: When something like that happened every single day it's like a real sickness, like somehow once it's over, I don't know what, it's freaking weird. It's her and the other one's crazier, way crazier, my mom has some semblance of fucking...but they both have this thing, it's very unfortunate. (pause)
CLIENT: And it's especially in her and my aunt, I wonder, I guess maybe their ages or something oldest and second oldest? Maybe they got the brunt of my grandfather's kind of...he was so gruff and kind of a depressed case in some ways. I just don't know. [00:06:04]
CLIENT: Yeah, they're girls, he didn't pay any...the youngest daughter was maybe... she got a little more, she was always kind of the favorite, the little princess, and I think because of that she was a little more up, you know, but these two. Thank god my mom...in a weird way is more like my grandfather in that she has...my grandfather was the way he was but at the same time he was on top of his shit, he was kind of...I don't know. He didn't have any of that crazy...my other aunt, I don't know what's going on there but when my mom broke her fucking hip there was no...she was like "Yeah, I need to have a hip replacement, medicine, whatever, IV's, sure." But with the other one I don't know what's going on there.
CLIENT: Yep. The one who like overprotects her daughter and still hasn't visited since my grandmother had her first heart attack. Can you imagine that shit? [00:07:26] It's unbelievable, it's really unbelievable. It's almost like a Howard Hughes, you know what I mean? Like just...so I'm at least, especially being an only child, I'm grateful that I don't have to worry, you know what I mean? Like my mom has her friends and she (laughs) whatever issues we have she's a normal woman out in the world, but my other aunt has no friends, she has...I don't know man, it's sad. I don't understand. It's bad for her kids, especially her daughter but yeah so I was just like "wow", we're back to...It wasn't as bad as saying "Oh, men are going to be after..." but it's still...I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just sad.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah it is and it isn't, I mean now it's more...I have no patience for it now, I kind of shut her up with fact and with reality and then I just don't...
CLIENT: Yeah of course. Even a year ago that would have really hurt me, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, the history of it and what it did to me.
CLIENT: Yep.
CLIENT: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: Well it just makes me anxious. That's the thing then I just feel...
CLIENT: Almost like I'm nervous, like I just don't know what to talk about. [00:10:04] Again because I'm not the type that just lays there and you know, so I get...(pause) But I still look forward to coming in, it's not like I'm not like looking forward to it's just...
CLIENT: Well I think some people are more open to just being...just being. I'm sure it's also that I get anxious because I know there's plenty to talk about but either I'm not or I don't know where to start or I don't know how to, whatever it is.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: (laughs)
CLIENT: Well if you mean like an LSD trip yeah that's what it felt like. [00:11:33]
CLIENT: It's like a black out.
CLIENT: What are those things called? Like a vision quest then you kind of don't remember what happened. I still, like I say I don't understand that whole...I mean four years is a long fucking time when you're that age and fucked up and in LA, I don't know what was going on there. I don't know what I was thinking. (pause) You know what was crazy? This is somehow related. You know who showed up at the reading was this cousin, my second cousin, did I ever tell you the story about my second cousin who when I was 17 I was kind of like in love with her...
CLIENT: Then they kind of humiliated me and shit. But now I'm friends with her husband who came to his senses and all that stuff. [00:12:53] She was there.
CLIENT: I've not seen her in years. My mom too was like "What the fuck was Marla doing there?" (laughs) Really crazy, none of us have seen her in a long, long time. Weird, really weird.
CLIENT: We started becoming friends when I was like 16, 15 and she was like 25.
CLIENT: My mom's first cousin.
CLIENT: Marla's father and my grandmother were brother and sister, so that makes Marla...That was just really strange that she was there. I kind of didn't think twice about it because I was so inundated. I quickly said "Hi", quick kind of awkward hug. She was like "Wow, that's really heavy stuff, it's not easy to write poems like that." I was like "What the fuck?" Weird. And also I'd never seen her...I mean her ex was there with his wife, I've never seen that whole configuration in one place. Amazing.
CLIENT: Oh yeah they got divorced a long time ago. And as soon as they did it was like the spell was broken and he was back to being a normal person. Yeah that was very strange. It's like now I'm remembering various people I said hello to but anyway...That's also part of that period between like 17 and 20 right before my dad died, right after my dad died where it was just craziness.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: She was like my best friend, I mean I was madly in love with her it was crazy. [00:15:47] We hung out all the time. Obviously I looked up to her, she was cool, she was one of the first people that kind of...she noticed my aesthetic before I kind of noticed it, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I was kind of dressing a certain way but she had names...I don't know what the word it, she made me aware of that and kind of helped me cultivate it and introduced me to music and whatever, she was all artsy and shit. She was beautiful, she paid attention to me, she took me seriously.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, she encouraged me but then she also hurt me because...well she didn't mean to hurt me but because I was projecting (laughs) I secretly, just constantly pining after her. I would get jealous, I would get hurt if she...insane, insane.
CLIENT: At least ten years, if not 12 or 13 years.
CLIENT: No she didn't know and...well maybe she did but she's kind of enjoying the attention, I don't know. But then I declared it to her, like I wrote a whole letter...I was way too serious back then and so in a cultural bubble...I mean the way she was too. She was an immigrant, she came over when she was a child but her mom and dad were like fucking villagers. Lovely people but my great uncle was a complete villager. [00:17:33] He certainly did not take his daughter seriously. There was one point even where he forbade her to see me cause he thought it was strange...you know, what are we doing, where...He just didn't...So I wonder even if for her, most women that age would've been like "That's cute, he's got...clearly this kid has a crush on me but I'm not going to..." you know what I mean? In a way that's weird too, to hang out so much and I think it was because she was in some suspended...you know what I mean? Probably hadn't dated really. She was beautiful but...she had these old world kind of probably conflicting things and all this stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah, attention and something innocent...Crazy.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It was like why are you hanging out with me?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: No I wasn't trying to be dismissive I'm just like...it was insane. I wrote her this crazy love letter.
CLIENT: I mean at that age? It's like nothing in me was like "What am I doing?" Ten, twelve, thirteen years older than me? Second cousin? Engaged to that guy?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. So it was like "What the fuck am I doing?" It's insane. It's one thing to have...if she wasn't my cousin and if she was a little bit younger maybe, like yes, but even then, even the way I did it was so innocent/serious. Other guys would have just made a move or something. But it was all so...even though we're not old or whatever but things were different kind of to some extent back then. Now people are having sex when they're like 14 or whatever but I think it wasn't that unusual maybe to be more innocent but I was really on the extreme side of it. I really had only kissed like one girl, two, didn't ask any girls out in high school. [00:20:25] The serious part was I wasn't even thinking about having sex with her per se, I was like really in love with her.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Exactly. Just like a lot of things back then were. Being a rock star, being whatever. Some of that stuff has served me well, I mean even maybe the thing with her has served me well. Maybe that's why I now am successful with women because I'm not really...Even when it's a girl I'm just trying to hit on, it's usually very genuine. I'm not trying to...The weird thing was she said that back then. Years later I remembered this phone conversation where she had said, I don't remember what it was but something had hurt me or I felt jealous. She was like "I'll never forget. You're going to grow up to be a heartbreaker. In a couple of years, you don't know how well you're going to do." I of course, in one ear and out the other, I didn't really think about it, but years later it's like "Whoa, that's weird." [00:21:50]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It did but I was so hurt that I was being rejected and I was so...I mean you're a fucking teenager, insecure, embarrassed, I told this...
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And I wondered after this event, I was like "That's weird, should I..." I mean it is weird, we have a crazy history and we don't...I've never, we've never tried to...I don't know. Maybe (laughs) this whole compassion thing, I was like "I don't know, she got divorced, she has no children, maybe I should reach out and say hi" I don't know. Obviously now that things are normal (laughs) lucid...[00:23:23] Her father died...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's kind of sad that we weren't able to...but I'm leaving out the fact that she was kind of...I don't know if she is now but she was also very difficult and kind of manipulative. That's kind of a big thing I'm leaving out.
CLIENT: So that's why I kind of...the way that whole thing ended...
CLIENT: I don't remember, obviously nothing happened but then I think basically told Jeff. She just showed him the letter.
CLIENT: Yeah, so then they humiliated me in the house of this woman who was the moderator, her and her husband, in front of a bunch of people.
CLIENT: It's so convoluted, we were all playing music, remember her husband's the guy that taught me music?
CLIENT: So Jeff would come too to those things. There were a couple of guys that he would just for free...yeah, just saying...it actually wasn't her so much. Jeff was, and I don't blame him, see this is her...She has no reason to tell him anything. All she had to do was be like "This is a kid, how sweet, let's just move on." There was no reason to tell...and him, I don't blame him. [00:24:48] He probably felt threatened, whatever it was. He was younger than her too. So at the time he was only like 22 maybe so I think he was at least six years younger than her.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah but see again it's that whole bubble, kind of...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. He just said "You know you're a fake, you're two face..." he really laid in to me.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: Well because she had probably told him...showed him this letter and all that and I don't know, I guess he meant that I, you know, I've been secretly trying to get his woman. I don't know. Who the fuck knows what he meant? I just...he was probably angry and laid in to me.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Again which is also traumatizing because I was the youngest in that group. I was like seventeen, barely eighteen so I looked up to all these people. It was kind of brutal.
CLIENT: One guy I think was like "Jeff, calm down." I don't think I said anything. I mean what am I going to say? I actually don't even remember.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah I did leave. I remember I was half kind of crying and just furious like on the sidewalk. [00:26:27] Craziness. So that didn't need to happen like she could've been like, you know....oh and she did say some personal stuff about the family in front of all these fucking strangers. Not strangers but not family. She was like "Your family this..." and I was like it's the same family so you're insulting your own family in front of all these people? I don't know it was just...
CLIENT: It was something about like...her whole other thing was she had an insecurity thing because her mom was a complete fucking backwards peasant, you know, and very unattractive. I don't know how she became...I think my uncle was such a handsome guy (laughs) but my great aunt was just a very unattractive peasant woman. Nice enough lady but just very simple and gruff and ignorant. So I think she had this pent up stuff about my mom, my aunt, all of these beautiful women who are talented and have all these amazing friends. I think there was some...immigrants, working class anger which I have too but completely misplaced. [00:27:45]
CLIENT: Something like "You think you're better than other people" just silly nonsense.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean the funny thing is, ultimately it didn't affect me in the sense of it didn't affect my standing, all those people stayed my friends and not hers. That wasn't the reason per se but over time people just saw that she was difficult and kind of manipulative or weird or just something about her was not ...wherever she went something kind of confrontational followed her. And like I said now her ex is a sweetheart, he's a great guy. He has a great wife, they have kids, it's like he...I'm sure he was also under her spell. She was beautiful and he was younger than her, both his parents died so...easy to mold. [00:29:02]
CLIENT: Mm hm.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: No that was very humiliating. And also it's something most seventeen year olds...it was such an adult kind of humiliation.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean? It wasn't like teenagers riding on each other or getting into a fight where it's your peers. These were older people I looked up to and just bizarre. It was very....hard.
CLIENT: Something unconditional.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. [00:31:09]
CLIENT: Well that's the thing I mean, I think what hurt most was forget the romantic, my declaration, like it would've been so amazing if she had just pulled me aside at some point and just said "You know, I love you, we're cousins, I'm your big sister..." that's really all that had to happen because almost as soon as I wrote this letter, I think within a week or two, I like woke up. You're at that point where your kind of growing kind of fast or whatever, I was like "What the fuck?" And that was it, I was like "Oh, that was a huge mistake." So it wasn't like for years after that...you know what I mean? As soon as it was verbalized in a way, I was like this is...all she had to do was, I mean I was a kid, I was a fucking kid, but to make it into such an adult thing...If I was her age, you know, a grown man with a life and I'm trying to pursue this woman, that's a totally different story but I think that's what hurt. It's like "Wow man, you can't just be like a family member?" [00:32:31]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah it's not a big deal at all, it's a very common...yeah.
CLIENT: But just fucked up for her?
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Whatever, yeah exactly. [00:33:39] (pause) It's funny what you were saying earlier about the writing? It was kind of cool yesterday at practice we had these three songs where I switch guitars so different tuning and stuff and I was like "You know, maybe for the record release, now that there are enough songs, maybe just stick with my Fender and not have to..." There's something about having to stop and switch guitars, you don't want to break the momentum and it was kind of cool they were all, it was funny, they all agreed, it just kind of came out. They were like "Yeah, we love those songs, but there's something about the new songs that's...basically better." They're looser and kind of a little more interesting. It was cool, I was like "Alright that means this is all working, whatever's going on." I feel that way but it's great to hear it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know, just thinking about songs and...I don't know, just like nothing specific really. The songs, the show...trying to get the money for the record. I don't really know who to ask. Or part of me is like I'll just wait for my next paycheck...use all of that for that and just figure it out for the next two weeks or something. [00:38:15] I'm like...I really got to figure out, I don't know. It's crazy when you just want to make like an extra grand a month and then like in the big picture it's so...it's really not that much money. But it is, it's unbelievable, just that little difference, you know? I think I'm really going to talk to George about the root beer business thing.
CLIENT: Be like "Dude I'm really serious about this." I'm going to do something. (pause) [00:39:28]
CLIENT: Oh yeah, sure.
CLIENT: Of course. I think that all the time, I mean there's something weird to me about being who I am, obviously I get along with everyone, I have skills, I'm talented, so how is it that for some reason moneys never been on my radar? Is it that I was rebelling so much against my mom like I just went the other extreme? I don't know what...and I didn't have guidance to be like "It's important to save and here's how credit cards work...student loans..." I don't know. (pause) The other big obstacle was I refused to be a grunt for other people and that I don't feel so bad about. I just feel I'd rather...cause in some ways that worked. I mean yeah I'm poor but I have gotten to do a lot of amazing things because I've stuck to certain ideas, you know? I don't want to work three jobs and I don't feel embarrassed about that. I don't have kids...but that is an obstacle because that means you have to figure out either business or you got to figure out...you know this job would have been great if I lived closer. It's not bad money but...[00:41:15]
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Well bills and also my career as a musician isn't funded, I'm funding it.
CLIENT: So yeah. (pause) But yeah I have noticed, that's the thing about the grant writing . Something even there has loosened up like now I want to make money just because I know I can and you know, I want to be able to do things and not...it's silly that I have to worry about some of this stuff, you know what I mean? Six hundred dollars? What the fuck is that? I mean if I was anyone else this record would have already been out because I would've just put it on my credit card. I've kind of had enough of that. It seems absolutely absurd. (pause) [00:42:38]
CLIENT: To imagine it? Yeah, it's kind of weird. (pause)
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Yeah cause I'm like "That's her way of saying I should lie down on the couch!" (laughs)
CLIENT: Maybe next week I'll try it or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, no it's not, I mean I was assuming eventually, you've brought it up before so...and you know what you're doing, I'm sure you're right. [00:43:59] Yeah I just feel a little shy or whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. No I'm sure you're right, I'm sure there's something about not making eye contact or feeling like you have to make conversation.
CLIENT: Oh fuck.
CLIENT: 3:10 on Fridays?
CLIENT: Yeah!
CLIENT: Hell yeah!
CLIENT: Nope. That's awesome.
CLIENT: So 1:00, 12:50 and 3:10?
CLIENT: Nice. That's awesome.
CLIENT: Alright. Tricia I'm going to come back either today or Monday and drop off a check. I'm sorry I was rushing so...Alright so I'll see you Wednesday.
CLIENT: Alright, have a good weekend.
CLIENT: Thanks for not having (inaudible) (heavy sigh) Oh, man, dude. I don't let me give you an example of what's been going on. Like I'm starting to get scared I have like Alzheimer's or something. I got up today and like, all right awesome, 12:50, whatever, plenty of time, whatever. I shower, whatever. Then it's around 12. I don't know why I suddenly am in a panic because I think the appointment is at 12:30. Like that's the kind of shit that's happening more and more lately. So I'm rushing. I rush to Dunkin, I run to my friend who, like I can't just, I gotta at least chat with him briefly, so like, fuck, fuck, fuck. So I get here at 12:33, I finally find parking, I sprint all the way here. The minute I get in here and see your door is closed what the fuck am I doing? 12:50. [00:00:04]
CLIENT: I don't know. There's been a lot of stuff like that happens a lot lately. It's kinda like freaking me out. I'll like get ready, I'll put like a banana and a water to take with me when I leave the house. I'll forget it.
CLIENT: Yesterday was such a sh not a shitty, well, I don't want to say shitty it was a weird day. Yeah, but I don't know. I feel like my mind is on such overload that like sometimes I'll be having the like it happens here. I come here and I don't remember what we talked about, the time before. I'll be with someone at a bar and I'll sud like ‘did I just ask them this questions?' like 15 minutes ago? I don't know, it's kind of like freaking me out. But, that's a normal thing, right/ When you're ...
CLIENT: I don't know. It's just freaking me out. I don't it's strange. It's as if I've begun not paying as much attention as I think I am, or, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So, in the conver I think I'm listening but then I'm only half listening? So I'm not really getting,
CLIENT: I'm not remembering really the information, kind of. I don't know.
CLIENT: Well, just because I mean fucking one o'clock, I mean come on there's no, you know. Yeah, I was up super, super late the night before. It was a weird whatever, but, really? Come on. So, I don't know. Maybe there's just something going on where it's just, especially lately, like I said, I just feel my mind's just really working overtime lately.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah ... (cross talk)
CLIENT: I wasn't awake.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, I was awake. I woke up a couple of times but I was so groggy and so (cross talk)
CLIENT: Like (inaudible).
CLIENT: And I did set my alarm. I think that was kind of technically, like today, usually I have like three alarms that, you know. So, because there was really no alarm, I just, once I get into that deep sleep it was just, I woke up right at like one. Although I did wake up with a start. I mean I suddenly remembered and then I woke up all panicky and I was like, fuck me.
CLIENT: Yeah, well the night before was kind of a weird, it was an unusual night. I don't think it was I really think I just forgot, like I had a little too much to drink. I mean I was fine, but I was, for a Monday night I don't do that very often. I was a little buzzed. This chick tried to kiss me twice and that threw me off a little bit. I resisted. That was never happened in my life I mean unless they're disgusting and I'm not attracted, but an attractive girl, like I fended her off. It was pretty awesome, I thought. But, and then I went to see Dave. I didn't drink at Dave's, but we had like a long talk. We hung out. It was nice but didn't get home til like 4:30.
CLIENT: I'm sorry, Tuesday night See? I'm all like, God, I hate that. Tuesday night. So in all of that craziness I didn't have a moment to like, ‘oh, yeah, tomorrow, yeah.' It was on my mind but then it just (flit).
CLIENT: I think it's a, understand, I think it's a combination, it was a weird night the night before where I was kind of not in my normal routine at all and some unusual stuff happened so I just...but yeah, it could be that that was an excuse to (cross talk)
CLIENT: I think it was a build up to an excuse, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I've been getting more headaches lately, too. I used to get chronic headaches, really bad ones back in, between ‘99 and 2001. You know, one of those cluster kind of ones that are right here. And that's been happening not every day, not so bad but, yeah.
CLIENT: I was thinking yesterday when I was thinking about it, it was like, god, maybe I'm not even prepared, or maybe I need to work on being okay. I mean that sounds simplistic, but even like physically, like do you know what I mean, if you don't know what it's like to be like, ‘oh, wow, I guess things are pretty good,' but I don't know if they're good today I guess they were good yesterday. Like there's a pattern of maybe I'm just, maybe that's making my mind not now it's on overload of goodness, or like projects and you know what I mean? Like, I don't know. Who knows what's going on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. I do remember that.
CLIENT: Oh,, that, that because I said that now I feel oh,maybe. I didn't think about that.
CLIENT: Because I do remember saying it, but I do think that it might trigger. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I didn't even think about that. Yeah, that's true.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: I mean I remember talking about it, but not since then. But maybe it did but I don't remember, you know what I mean, maybe like pass -
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: No, I think I definitely, it probably was like, ‘oh, yeah, you know, Wednesday. Not like Wednesday I gotta be on the couch, but I think there was something like, ‘like what's going on with yeah, that. Going to see Tricia and then there's the couch.' I don't know some kind of passing thought.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: The couch?
CLIENT: Yeah. Definitely. I mean, I don't know. Yeah, I think I definitely feel anxious and nervous.
CLIENT: Well, unfortunately, I think sometimes like it's, sometimes it's getting to feel like because now there's so much on my mind, this is almost starting to feel like one of those things. I mean it's hard to explain. Like I want to be here, but then it's something like, ‘wow, it's another thing I've got to do' and like it's psychoanalysis so I can't and there's nothing I really can complain about per se. it's not like before where it's like, ‘oh, today this happened.' You know what I mean? So, maybe it's just, yeah.
CLIENT: Well no, not that bad. Not that bad. But it's like other things on my mind. It's more kind of anxiety producing.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: The one thing I was, because like this is one thing maybe we both, might be one of the deep things which we've talked about before but maybe it's much more deeper and more profound than maybe I'd think about, but like I, I am a little worried that like with Kelly. I'm worried because I'm still, like I feel like I'm doing all the things, and I'm feeling the way I wish I would have felt when I was 30 or 25, you know? So, I'm a little worried that like that part of me isn't going to want to settle. Do you know what I mean? Even in a (inaudible). You're in like the prime. Chicks are into you. You're doing shit. Things are happening. Like you're really living now. So, why are you settling for do you know what I mean? There's like a voice like that, or that's just scared that, ‘yeah, I do really, really care about this person, but that I'm weak because of this deep feeling that, that some amazing girl, if some other amazing girl came my way it would be hard for me to resist. I don't know. Like, do you know what I mean? [00:14:00]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. By now I probably would have like had kids, you know. Because I would have been able to, I would have felt more okay about committing long term because, you know. But, yeah, I just worry that like it's like, I mean. That girl, my friend who tried to kiss me, like it wasn't completely her fault. I mean, I'm a flirt, man. You know like I wasn't going to do anything, but that started it, like man I just can't help it. I cannot help it. You know? I just love that feeling of knowing that, you know, I could have this person, you know. Because I'm trying to make up for years of feeling like a fucking loser and hating myself and, you know, just. I don't know, it just worries me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: That still there is a kernel of it, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like (Pause) Yeah, it's serious but, you know, would it be a big deal if I saw somebody else like I mean, if you see someone once a week and you're just ti I don't know, like my mind is playing tricks on me like with that stuff, ya know?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's scary. It makes me anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. My CDs done. It's actually coming out. It's at the manufacturer as we speak. I did that event. It went super well. Even little things like I got the DVD and I couldn't figure out how to just save it as a file on my laptop so I could send it to my you know it like took two fuck I just couldn't figure out, for some reason on Google, it wasn't super clear, whatever sites I found. So even that, like it was like I didn't give up. Like for two or three days I kept trying, I kept trying and I figured it out, you know. And, not only that I like edited it, so I made an edit for my publisher that's just me reading so it's not the whole hour and a half of chitchat, you know. That's like a little thing, but it's not. Yeah, that's huge. Or like I got my thing from the loan, like you know in 15 days they're going to consolidate all the loans and even now, I have to call them because the monthly payment is ridiculous. I don't know what's going on there. The whole point was that, whatever, I think that can be totally sorted out, but like all that stuff, you know what I mean. The record release, show, I'm starting two businesses.
CLIENT: I'm starting two fucking businesses, yeah. One of them with my friend from the magazine. So, yeah, she's always had this idea to do a tee shirt business where it's you know that artist, Jenny Holzer, you know, just those sayings? We're going to come up with things like that. We'll just have really cool, nice cotton, form fitted, stylish tee shirts maybe with a very simple, some kind of thing and sell them. Have like a nice online source for that. But my other big thing is I'm always talking about clothing, right? So, I'm starting an online high end boutique for ties.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Really?
CLIENT: No, root beer we looked into it. The root beer is like too much grunt work. I mean you need places to store the stuff. It's kind of heavy duty work.
CLIENT: And I couldn't find anything online that's like what I'm thinking, oddly enough. Like there are like big places like ‘shit load of ties,' or whatever, but like really a cool, like high end web site like I'm into fashion, whatever. So, like, the thing about that is that in the past I might have thought about that, but now like I have a whole file of wholesalers and I already looked up prices and that in of itself makes me anxious. Do you know what I mean? The fact that I'm doing these things is like unnerving me, like it's making me feel weird.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: But you know, but it's just a lot. You know, it's a lot of fucking stuff I'm trying to do.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I think I have a fantasy that if I lay down suddenly it's going to be something awesome, you know, but it's not like that.
CLIENT: It's that some awesome things are going to get speeded up and it's going to be, like I'll feel a lot better and less anxious or whatever.
CLIENT: Well, well, yeah, plus, yeah, yeah, yeah, there's the other stuff, too, but I don't know what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. Exactly. I feel like I'm on a roller coaster already.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, ‘cause it's almost like I feel like I can't even handle things getting any better than this, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like, I look, and it's like, ‘what the fuck, I'm looking up wholesalers and shit...
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I had jobs. I had, you know.
CLIENT: I had,, yeah.
CLIENT: I was just going to say I think maybe a lot of this too is like letting go of him.
CLIENT: Like, now he'd really dead. You know what I mean. Whereas before he was constantly ...
CLIENT: That's why the more I thought about PTSD, was like, yeah, that is not what it is. Like, you're still in the war. Even though you're still in the trenches, you're still a prisoner somewhere or some shit.
CLIENT: So, you know. If you can't drive by a cemetery because you think of death or illness or something or you can't see an article about heart disease or something because you immediately, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. I mean, that started a month right after, a month, out of the blue. Where it was like, suddenly I was him.
CLIENT: Instead of feeling like that's a separate person who it's really sad and devastating to lose, but I suddenly thought, I'm going to go exactly the same way. It's just a matter of time. And to be like that for almost 20 years, that's some fucked up shit.
CLIENT: That's good, I feel a little better.
CLIENT: Yeah. That could be. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean really like one thing I do know about myself is I'm pretty good at suddenly making a leap, like pushing myself to, so probably when the time comes I'll just do it.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: And you know it's interesting, too, because like I've never seen myself give a reading let alone like a whole event about me and my thoughts on poetry. That's been really interesting. I was like, ‘holy shit, this guy rocks.'
CLIENT: I mean, I'm so ...
CLIENT: Yeah, it's crazy.
CLIENT: That's exactly what it feels like. Although, that, but also you're right. I've thought about this. It really does feel like pre 19 year's old. That's crazy. It's really kind of crazy to be honest, because that is what, I mean I'm writing a shit load of songs, I love the songs I'm writing. I'm writing again. Oh, that was the other thing. When I'd listen to the new poems at the end of what I read from the new stuff it was like, ‘wow, man,' this is being written by someone at a different place now that even that book, like it just...
CLIENT: That's exactly what it feels like.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Which it kind of is like. I mean that is a drug. Right? Whatever that shit is. Cortisol, or whatever happens you're super anxious.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Awesome. Tricia, you got the thing I left, right? The envelope I left last week, or Monday?
CLIENT: Didn't I?
CLIENT: See, this is what I'm talking about. Fuck me. I'm sorry. I guess it's in my bag. All right. I'll ...
CLIENT: No, no, no, no, no. I probably completely forgot. I'll come by...
CLIENT: I'll just bring it with me tomorrow.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Thanks, Tricia.
CLIENT: Ah, it's nice in here. What's up? It's nice. Yeah. This is all good, this 3 o'clock thing? Way better. I feel a little more rounded. Woke up with a tension headache though, so I didn't sleep well last night. It took me a while to-and I had like a weird panic attack after practice yesterday? I went to my friend's bar. Just me and him having beers. I don't know, I suddenly felt really weird. I suddenly felt it was like an old school, slightly weird anxiety, I felt suddenly like hyper-aware of myself and like just felt weird and a little bit off. So weird. I got over it, but ...
CLIENT: Nah, I think it's just the state I'm in right now. I still not-I (exhale) this is just unbelievable. I just-there's a way-I come down the street and I turn on, what is thator whatever right there. So, I'm going down there-that's a two-way street.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Isn't it? I think-I'm pretty sure it's a two-way street. Yeah, because I'm pretty sure I've been down there when the snow was bad and cars were turning in and-I'm going to double check but I'm pretty sure it's a two-way street. Two cars are in front of me, I just casually get in the left lane in a two-way street and as I'm turning like, ‘what the fuck am I doing?' Like I'm just completely preoccupied with too much stuff and now like the stuff we've talked about and feeling edgy and-I had another fucking band cancel for the record release. I mean it's in two fucking weeks.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, but it's making me like feel, you know, like I'm becoming like a nutty professor, like I can't keep things straight in my mind and I'm got all these lists and I just feel like overwhelmed, like it's just all of a sudden in the last week or two I was just.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I am trying to remind myself that I mean it's all good things, I mean, even if a band did cancel, if worse comes to worse there's going to be a show with three bands, but there's going to be a fucking show and people are going to come out to see us. I mean it's our record release show, so. I don't know. If worse comes to worse after us we'll throw on an iPod and have a dance party. I don't fucking know, but yeah, like I try to remind myself that I was doing this this morning and my head was just killing me. But, yeah, I just don't know. I don't know if it's that things are just going well and there's something in me trying to just draw me back to it's so, I'm not used to this, that's trying to pull me back to feeling all fucked up and you know, just shut myself in. I don't know. I mean, yeah. The drummer's not whatever, but we've played shows and they've all been great. I mean, we'll revisit it after the show and figure it out. If I need to try someone else out, I will. You know, it's kind of not, you know what I mean, no one's holding a gun-like I feel like that's my mom's kind of thinking. Do you know what I mean? It's my band. I put this band together. If I really feel like this just isn't working out I'll talk to him and explain and whatever and if it kind of can't change, then just try some other drummers out. It's not ideal, but that shit happens all the time. I think, yeah, I'm jut not used to all this stuff and with stuff comes stresses, you know. Things happen, you know, like much worse every day. I mean they're trying to do things, it doesn't work out and things get cancelled, I don't know. I think it's a combination of I'm not used to it and that old voice kind of feeds on that stuff or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think that's what it is. Because it's used to catastrophizing (sp?) everything and turning it physical and whatever, just totally like defeatist or whatever. Now it has opportunity to do that because there's all this stuff going on. So, that side of me forgets that it's like what you said, like it's all good stuff and yeah, some stuff might kind of shit happens, you know?
CLIENT: But it's not ...
CLIENT: I think the funny thing though is that I'm even handling it. Like I already put out the voice in my head like, ‘I don't give a shit' and I was like, ‘well, should I put this on?' and you know what? Fuck it. I don't like Facebook, but it's a perfect place to vent about something like that. I have like 2,000 friends on there. I don't give a fuck if they see it or not. It's just not cool, you know? So in a way that's very, it's not like I'm cowering in the, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: And, I'm already like, fuck it, if that's the way it's going to be I'll even pay someone 50 bucks out of my own pocket to come and you know we'll bill it as a CD release show/dance party. After we're done we can do an hour of whatever. I don't know, it's just...
CLIENT: No, no, no, that's not old.
CLIENT: Well, the old voice would have been like, ‘oh, this isn't meant to happen. This means the show's going to go totally awful, it's going to be all fucked up and bad, there aren't going to be a lot of people there.' It would just find ways to pile on instead of being just like this is just what happens. I mean, it happens, musicians are flaky.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Maybe the other thing, too, is like a part of it is like, ‘damn, so even though I'm feeling so great and I'm doing all this stuff, when am I just going to feel less,' you know what I mean? Like (inaudible) (Laughs) if that's what it is. Part of me is like, ‘damn it, I'm doing so much better and I am doing all this stuff so why are, you know, shouldn't I be a little more, I don't know. Or, I'm just over thinking it and I am being (inaudible). Does that sound like I'm having a panic, you know, I had a little bit of an anxiety attack yesterday, but it was very, very mild and passing. So, I don't know if I'm just used to over thinking, like why am I this, why am I, you know what I mean? Why am I jittery? Why am I, you know-that's not good either. You can't over, I mean obviously there are a lot of deeper things that we talk about but I'm just saying it's probably not good all day with every little thing. I'm like, ‘why can't I be more calm?' I am calm. (Laughs) That's one of the things that anybody that knows me knows, like, ‘gee, you're always so calm.' [00:11:20]
CLIENT: That's kind of what I mean.
CLIENT: (inaudible) exposing this thing, the thread that is not really ...
CLIENT: I mean even with Kelly. Like last night I was talking to Stu and on my way home, you know even with that I'm getting all kind of nervousy and edgy about it but really I'm even handling that well. I mean it's going ver-I'm just taking it one day at a time and I'm also not beating myself up for feeling like, well, I mean, you know-we're not married, we're dating so you know, if I was to meet someone who was Assyrian and it's like, in other words like I think I have a much healthier, it's not that old, like she's on a pedestal, it's all about that and then suddenly it's a nightmare. This is more like we're two adults and she's, I mean she is amazing. I really care about her but I'm also slightly, I mean it think it's kind of legitimate to whether you're dating someone to think about things and think about, is this the right person? Or, I mean, they have a kid or if they're not Assyrian. They're not, you don't want to use those excuses to sabotage stuff, but I think, you know.
CLIENT: Or if nothing else, I feel like it's a healthy mix, at least I'm aware that it might be sabotage.
CLIENT: You know what's funny? Some of this could also be, and I'm not deflecting the other important stuff, but I'm realizing that some of this could also be like when you have this much on your plate it's even more important to have a better sleep schedule, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: But yeah, of course if you don't feel like you're really awake until like noon then you kind of feel like, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Because if you're up and feeling kind of bright eyed and bushy tailed at like 8 or 9 and you've got the whole day to kind of slowly chip away at things and then it's only 4. But if you're not getting your (laughs) minimum, you're kind of like, business hours, certain things you've got to do by 5 or whatever so you're just kind of asking to be jittery.
CLIENT: Because you're listless. It takes longer to check off.
CLIENT: It's stupid.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. No, I know, I know. You're right, you're right. Dave and I talk about that. We go back and forth because we both feel bad about working for the same edge, we both, but we're like (laughs) it's like we are who we are, we kind of like that about us. That we're not these fuddy-duddy, like, ‘oh, I'm fucked the whole week if I buy this glass of wine. We're not like that, but...
CLIENT: Well, it is. I think (pause) I think there is something in the middle. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I gotta find a way to maybe, maybe it does come down to like I just need to take something and really just, like take something like at midnight...
CLIENT: ...so that at 1:30 I'm just knocked out. I don't want to do that but I think that that's what might have to happen and that other, that melatonin, I mean it doesn't work sometimes, so I don't know if I have to talk to my doctor or just take something over-the-counter, but you can't take that stuff every day, right? The over-the-counter stuff, you're not supposed to, I mean...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'll just talk to the pharmacist or something. Because even the Ativan sometimes like it relaxes me but it doesn't, I'm still like awake.
CLIENT: This is my first cup and I'm not even half way through.
CLIENT: I mean yesterday-on band nights I'm not good. Like, I'll have one or two and then I'll have a medium Dunkin at practice which in my mind is better than drinking beer while we play and then going to a bar. But, and also like for example at Starbucks-I mean it's half hot water, half coffee. I mean it's, I don't know how strong that is, but and a lot of times I'll throw it away. You know, it's just, I'm very like slow. I sip, I sip, I don't care if it's hot or cold but then it gets like, but then I toss it. I would say really like a whole all day, like it's really only an actual cup, maybe a little bit more. I don't think that's...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think when I'm otherwise not feeling like overloaded it's always been fine. I've had cups of coffee like at midnight and...
CLIENT: Yeah, because it probably it's also, well not probably-it is, that I think it ends up making me feel depressed, too.
CLIENT: I mean like you know you got to think there is something biologically-you've just got to be up and about by like at least 9, 9:30, you know. On the weekends it could be later or whatever. Sundays you can sleep in. You gotta be, just even if you're just up and about in your pajamas, just doing, get on the laptop, whatever, make some breakfast, whatever it is. I think I've just been resisting, well one, I just feel overloaded so there's that quiet time at night when I just feel kind of, but also, I don't want to take anything, but, you've got to do what you've got to do.
CLIENT: But those are so few and far between, it never becomes a pattern.
CLIENT: It was but I think because I was such a good kid when I hit like junior high or whatever, I kind of ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's just what happens. Yeah, I'm not like-although, see now, the weird thing now is like if I'm with Kelly or whatever, I could totally be in bed with her and kind of just lay there and eventually I'm asleep.
CLIENT: I know it runs in my family on my mom's side. My mom not so much, but my aunt, my uncle. So. My cousins, a lot of them. Yeah, I don't know if it's just you're alone with your thoughts, and it's just, it's the opposite of winding down, like it's not relaxing. Right.
CLIENT: (Laughs)
CLIENT: Well, sometimes, but there was that period in my 20s where that didn't. I mean I would be with a girl and whatever and I would have all out panic and it was really embarrassing and I'd have an all out panic attack.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Lights out in bed. Even with a girlfriend. Oh yeah, so...
CLIENT: So you mean, like not sleeping or not having better habits because it's a subconscious form of just being bad to myself?
CLIENT: Like, that's what I deserve? To not be...
CLIENT: And like kind of calming...
CLIENT: ...like restorative kind of love.
CLIENT: (Laughs) What's that song? "The Devil Inside?" It's, "The Mommy Inside."
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, at this point, now that we articulated it that way, now I'm, it makes sense why like in the past I'm so sensitive, right? Like it hasn't been forever, a long time, thank god, but remember that last time at the pub with that girl, remember I was with some friends and ...
CLIENT: ...the girl I didn't really even know?
CLIENT: I mean, what is all that? You know, that's all in those moments. That's my mom saying, ‘you're just like no good,' you know what I mean. ‘You're just no good.' And other people are kind of always a little bit ahead of you, always a little bit better than you, always, you know, do you know what I mean? So, and that, that could be a symptom, like it's kind of like, remember, I always say things like, I don't like it when people ask like, or when people say, oh, you look tired, or you sound sad, or whatever. Those kinds of things. Why? You know, because it's like walking into my mom's apartment trying to be happy to see her and the first thing is like, you know, something negative or she just looks like all fucking negative and deflated. That's so weird. That's kind of like a big thing. I mean I think I always maybe knew that on some level but it's a big difference to articulate it so clearly, like yeah, I didn't think about it, but yeah, maybe subconsciously it's that someone's immediately trying to get me to, instead of just being happy the way things are, that's someone's always trying to make changes, or as if, like this isn't good enough, you have to make an improvement, you now.
CLIENT: (Laughs) Nitpicking. That is just so (inaudible) and immediately sounds like criticism. And they get all like, why say it, I know I look tired. But, that's not the point. It's that someone cares about you. But, in my mind it's a criticism that means that somehow I look more tired than other people. [00:39:59]
CLIENT: Yeah, that I'm more unattractive, like I'm from being unattractive and weird looking. You know what I mean? Like it just -immediately I don't see any concern in those statements. (Laughs) It's you know.
CLIENT: I know.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: Oh.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm more of like, I don't know how much may or may not be. I'm not saying you're wrong, I'm just saying, I don't know, because I really didn't think about it. But, yeah, maybe subconsciously there was something, I don't know.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean it could, it could, I think it has nothing to do with you. I think that the part that's true is that I probably felt like, why don't I get on the couch, like am I not a good patient? Or, like, what? I don't have any balls, I can't get on the couch. That's, you know. So it's not even the suggestion, it's that I can't be like, no or yes or maybe or no big deal one way or the other, I'm going to do whatever feels comfortable. But, I think probably subconsciously, it wasn't even, there are times I did think about it, but it was like, why don't I just go fucking lie down on the couch? So, maybe that, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah,
CLIENT: ‘Cause that's not how my life is. My life is that, it's not about what works for me or doesn't, it's that all these outside perceived things that aren't real about other people or things or whatever, they're constantly telling me that there's something wrong with me. So I can never be just like, no I just don't feel like doing that, you know. I always, there's something I feel bad about, always.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: What's it going to do, kill you to get on the couch?
CLIENT: Like even that, it like, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was never, it was always very prescriptive and kind of like, you know, ...
CLIENT: You know that when something's very simple I always go back to-and I've told her this and I've told her this about her whole family right to her face. There's no real humor. Not real humor. They'll fucking laugh at something or they'll do those things like I said that annoy the shit out of you and just fucking get you and they'll be like, ‘ha, ha, come on, laugh. You've gotta laugh at life.' Then right after they just fucking pissed you off to no end, so then you feel like more of a chump because you're like, mother fucker, I laugh all the time, but then if you say that, you seem kind of angry and, you know what I mean? It's a fucking ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Okay, okay.
CLIENT: So, Wednesday at 1.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Cool.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: (inaudible) [00:00:17]
CLIENT: Okay. Cool. Thank you. (Pause) What's up?
CLIENT: Good. I'm okay. Hanging in there. Feeling a little bit better than last week. Yeah, I don't know. There's a lot going on actually. My consolidation went through, on my loans. So that was cool. I called them it didn't show what I was going to pay every month in the whatever, letter, that said that it was going-so I called them and it looks like it's going to be like 300 bucks a month which is, for all the loans I have, that's amazing. So, I think it'll be good although I don't understand why I'm-I guess because it hasn't kicked in yet, it takes like 15 days or 30 days or whatever, because I'm still getting calls from like Sallie Mae and I'm like, yeah, I don't know what, yeah.
CLIENT: So, anyway. That's okay. At least it's taken care of.
CLIENT: Yeah, basically the first thing I'm going to do is write to them, but okay, how's this work on my credit report? Like how do I, all that default shit and whatever, so yeah, that's really big, I mean it is now, it's like two or three hundred dollars that I need to make sure that that's never a fucking problem, you know. But that's, I mean, whatever, that's fine. So, I mean, yesterday I was pretty stressed about money, that's the only thing because I have to make my next payment to the disc manufacturer so that I really have no, almost, pretty much no money in my account, which hasn't happened in a long time. So, that's very stressful, but I don't know, for some reason I'm okay, yeah. I'm doing things. I don't have money because I'm paying things, you know, getting things done, so. I've just somehow got to make it till next Friday, you know.
CLIENT: Exactly. Exactly. That was the other thing. I took care of it. I talked to them and they're like, ‘you know what, they were like, ‘can you pay us like 51 percent? can you pay us,' you know, and I did, and then this was the second payment. So I mean that feels good. Yeah, things are getting done. And it is kind of cool that I was thinking about it and I mean, by default I'm paying things with cash. But my credit card's like I don't have a huge limit so it's close to the, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: But I mean yeah, I might be broke but it does feel kind of good to just, you know, paying for shit. Do you know what I mean? I'm not like, put that on this credit card, put that on this one, you know, that's what a lot of people do. So, it's just going to suck for just until next Friday until I kind of sort some things out, but...
CLIENT: Big time.
CLIENT: No, no.
CLIENT: The opposite.
CLIENT: No, no. No, no.
CLIENT: No, no, no, it feels really good. Yeah, it feels really good. But because when I think about it, really that is my debt. I mean if like let's say, if I was in a different head space and I had just kept up with these student loans, you know, I have no other debt. It's not like I have a gazillion credit cards and I'm like all over the place. You know, now it's just one bill. I have this one other credit card but that's one credit-it's got like a $1500 balance. It's no big deal. So, that's, that's pretty good shape, you know, so. But you know, at the same time it is annoying, I mean like fuck, I literally have to count like and do I have enough money to go to Starbucks five days this week or whatever? That's getting old, but like you said that's really shitty when there's nothing good going on financially (laughs) you know what I mean? You're spinning your wheels but sometimes you got to make some sacrifices to make things happen. So, that's really good. And things with Kelly are really great like she told me over the weekend that she told her son about me and so that was really nice. And, I saw her last night. I went to have some drinks with her. And we talked about it. Because she, and I'm glad I brought it up because see, sometimes I still don't know. She told me that when she told me in the car I guess my reaction was pretty subdued, because when she told me I thought okay well it's best not to be dramatic or so it was like, ‘oh, that's really nice, thank you,' or something like that. And I just was like mellow but sweet about it but I just kind of didn't need a big-so last night when I brought it up she was like, ‘yes, in the car when I,' and I was like, ‘oh, shit,' is she going to break up with me now. I was like, ‘oh, damn,' like, no I was doing the-I was trying to...
CLIENT: Yeah, I was trying to temper things because I was like, ‘I know you don't, you know you're not a very dramatic person, you don't like to make a fuss out of stuff, so I just thought that's cool and I was, like it was brave enough even for you to tell me that and to do that, so I just thought it's best to, you know. Yeah, and she was like, you know it's like he's going to be staying at his dad's. You know you could stay at my place if you want. It's like you know, my brother's there, but, I don't know, it's huge.
CLIENT: Yeah, very huge. First time. She has not told her son, introduced or invited anyone she's dated in four years since her divorce. I really respect that, like she's like I'm just not-like my ex has some different ideas about that, but I just feel like that's, he's my priority and that's, you know, and I was like, ‘yeah, I feel the same.' I mean, like even for me I'm protective of myself, too. I'm good with kids and like, you know, not that I get so attached, but you know, they're kids and I was like I tend to form a bond and I was like I wouldn't want that to be, ‘cause he's a 12 year old kid and like that's, I was like, ‘you're doing-you're an amazing mom,' so that's cool. So that's good.
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah, I was saying, yeah like it's not just the way you're handling it but also just the way together we're, I mean that's what we were talking about last night, she was like, ‘yeah, you know I just thought it was time,' and she said like, ‘I just love how we've,' you know things have been so good and we're not, I don't know we don't rush anything, you know like major talks or whatever. Even when we do we kind of talk about, but kind of just agree, we're just like, ‘yeah, things are pretty fucking awesome,' I don't know. You know what I mean? Like it's so, like yeah, no, also I just, after what happened with Michelle and stuff it just, you know I still think about her kid, you know what I mean, like that's for me and for him, now that Grey's going to grow up like, there was this guy and then there was this other boyfriend because she clearly introduces them very quickly so it's just like, I don't know, so anyway, that's really cool. Although now, not immediately, but at some point if things continue doing so well, there's just going to be a shitty throw down with my mom, you know. I'm not looking forward to that. But, oh well. Maybe she'll handle it better than I think, I don't know. She's not over the moon, but she's pretty, at least she's not really saying any more shitty things about dating a non-Assyrian or anything. (inaudible) [00:09:18]
CLIENT: ...or having a kid, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh. And, she-did I tell you about the art fair thing?
CLIENT: So the tee-shirt business?
CLIENT: Kelly was like, ‘oh you know what? There's this art fair every year that's huge. It attracts like 30,000 people. And I didn't know. Oh, really, I'd never heard of it. So, she's like, ‘but you have to apply when you're a student or faculty, or whatever and you get picked to be able to have a merch (ph) table or whatever. So, like at the deadline she's like, ‘I'm going to submit something. I'm going to say, tee-shirts,' you know, whatever, and she got picked. And it's like, ‘how the fuck did you do that?' and she was like, ‘I don't know, I just sent them one of my drawings and I said it's going to be something like this.' And of course it was this amazing drawing, you know. So, that's kind of real now like that's going to happen. I mean even if we just make a few hundred dollars, whatever, that'll be a sign that, you know. And her girlfriend told her about a place that will let us do the silk screening ourselves like for almost nothing, so, which I don't know anything about that stuff which she was like, ‘yeah, it has to be, we got to do it right,' you know to make, you know. But, anyway, so that's cool. Yeah. And I like that she's thoughtful like that, know what I mean? Like she, it's really cool. [00:11:04]
CLIENT: Yeah, she's cool. She's definitely like in the last week or two I think that since she decided I think to tell her son, it's definitely, like last night she was much more, not much more, but her jokes were a little more like sassy and something, you know what I mean? Even at the bar Saturday night she kind of like told this chick off, kind of? This girl, we were in the south end. You know some of those people are just fucking douchy down there. She went to the bathroom, the place was crowded, so these cackling chicks were doing shots and one of them took Kelly's seat, kind of like really close, next to me and even before I could turn to say, ‘hey, you know that's my-' Kelly was right there and she goes, ‘ah yeah.' She goes like this and I guess the girl, I didn't hear, it was so loud, I guess the girl said, ‘well, that's rude,' and Kelly was like, ‘yeah, get out of my chair.' Like she's very fucking, that shit is like, but I don't know, I kind of like that, like she was like, ‘no fucking bitch is-', I like that, that's kind of like, you know, around here people are a little more icy about shit like that. I like that she's like, ‘yeah, you fucking sit next to my boyfriend, I'll punch you in the face,' you know, like...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Deep breath) And then I have a good blog post on the blog of poetry about my event. I kind of took some ideas and did a blog post about it so that they're linked to the video. I took the fucking video and I made and edited version of just my reading. They're going to link it to that and make it really nice like some reviews of my book and links to like some site for that, too, so that's going to go up Friday. So, I don't know, so things are moving along. [00:14:04]
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no, no. It's not going to well, trust me. I'm very, yeah, yeah, it's all tempered.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, it's really going well.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, no, and even like Jason, I finally contacted, he finally got back to me,
CLIENT: It was a little, I don't know what's going on there. It was a little odd. I got in touch with him about this anthology idea and he got back to me and was like, ‘well you know, the blog doesn't do themed anthologies and I was like, ‘oh, okay, I didn't realize that, sorry.' Then I contacted him about the Assyrian anthology thing that we'd already, you know, didn't hear back, so I don't know. I don't know what's going on with that, but I think I'm a little confused as to what, where we stand. You know, I don't know if he's just real busy or maybe he feels like, ‘you know, I'm not there anymore and unless he sees is just waiting to see, like, ‘all right, well show me something' and I don't know, but. But even that somehow didn't bug me. You know because it was like, ‘well, you know what?' even if I never published another book with them who the-I already did. (Laughs). So, now it's time to publish with some other publisher if that's the case. Even with the anthology, right after I sent it and I didn't hear I was like, ‘what am I doing? Why haven't I pitched this idea to other publishers? It was like, what-so I don't know. I don't know what's going on, but I was like, 'ay, fuck it.' I mean obviously I'm still welcome in the sense that they're featuring me on their blog and all this stuff.
CLIENT: So, it could just be, I mean it even could be that poor guy, he's like well that sounds great but I haven't seen the work. So it's maybe just or it could be nothing, he's just busy or whatever.
CLIENT: I'm not worried, I mean, you know, I'd like to keep publishing with them, you know, so I ...
CLIENT: I'm not worried he's mad. I guess I am worried that he's just moved on and he's found some other young poets that he's taking under his wing and you know. I don't know if it's really a worry, it's just, it feels unclear and I guess I knew one way or the other a little bit, like where I stand. But, I guess actions speak louder than words. I mean he's copied on all those e-mails about the blog and all that, so I'm assuming if there was something wrong he'd make up some excuse and have them not use my...
CLIENT: So. You, know, I think it's a combination of that he's very busy and he's probably a little bit, just being a little chilly in terms of like, ‘oh, but where's your work? What are you producing?' So I think, yeah. Although, I don't know. It does annoy me a little bit but at least get back to somebody.
CLIENT: So I don't know what...
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm just making sure that he's aware that it's something very minor, whatever it is. He's not ruminating over shit, it's just he's, it's just a little e-mail etiquette.
CLIENT: Yeah, like just get back to somebody. I sent him new poems. Just say something. And like why are you getting back to me randomly about this one anthology idea? I don't even understand, like, so I don't know what any of this...
CLIENT: No, not at all. No.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, no. That's exactly what (inaudible) well, I already did publish with them and that's always going to be there. And, it's about-I need to find a U.S. publisher anyway. So, you know.
CLIENT: Maybe he does but even that, like you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, I am a little worried that basically the things I have felt in the past about my self he's feeling. You know, this guy doesn't follow through, that kind of stuff. But, now that things have changed, it's like wait a minute. First of all I was-I mean if it ever came down to it I would very gently say, ‘well you know, you clearly told me even before I moved to England that there would eventually be funding. Right? And there wasn't. I had no problem with the program. If that program was completely paid for then I could stay there over the summers or I had money to visit Boston three times a year, or whatever, just a little more of, why wouldn't I finish it. There's no reason not to finish it. But this going back and forth and there's no money and like, yeah, even if I do my dissertation you got to pay for that shit. I'd have to pay for another two years or whatever. You know what I mean. So it's like he could feel that way, but I've gone into a lot of debt when he said, and the reason I didn't make a stink about it was because he published my book. And to me that outweighs a PhD, you know. So I don't know if it's that. I really don't know. I have no-it could be a little bit of each of those things. I don't think it's anything major, but-I do think it's a little bit of like-and also he's older. He's not at London anymore. So, he's kind of moved on. He's older. He's got a few other younger poets he's probably-who are actually there and you know that's fine, it's not a personal thing.
CLIENT: I think overall everything's fine basically.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I think everything's fine. Because even the blog guy, okay, you know he was like, ‘this is an amazing piece, it's perfect, blah, blah, blah.' And, I know Jason, Jason doesn't-everything goes through Jason, you know. So,
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. He's copied on.
CLIENT: No, no, he's copied on all that shit.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I already had a blog post before this.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I don't like, the one thing I was thinking of those, like on my way here was like, ‘what is this, why was it so bad some days last week and now it's, I'm not skipping down the street but it's way better? Like why am I not so anxious and jittery now? But I guess maybe that is part of, that's how life is, I mean that's every week can't be exactly the same, you might have one or two weeks where you just feel stressed and overwhelmed and ...
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe there were some triggers last week that then kind of faded away, I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: But see, even that seems to (inaudible) I mean, I went to bed late last night and I was up like at 10. I mean not that that's early, but you know. If you don't need to be anywhere or whatever. It's not ... [00:26:52]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: So, even that, I guess, but even that I think, I guess depending on where you are mentally...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, my-yeah, you know. I think ‘cause even I wasn't even thinking about it last week so I got it intellectually, but it ...
CLIENT: But I'm going to pitch it to some other. I mean, there is an anthology like that and all living writers, not dead writers, people that are, you know.
CLIENT: So.
CLIENT: And I think what I might do as I look into it more is that I might just write to Jason and be like, ‘so, are you okay?' You know, I need to move forward with this because by the time it even comes out it would be at least a year from now...
CLIENT: But yeah, I just figure, you know, if you have like 20 poets, 20 Assyrian, 20 Turkish poets, that's 80, right? Four to five whatever poems from each, you know. That's a hefty book, you know. It would be nice.
CLIENT: The trauma one?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think yeah, I think it could be used not just in poetry, but yeah, I mean, of course on some level I would want it to...yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: That's right.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Exactly. Especially if poems from all over the world and showing that there is a threat, like, rape and genocide aren't that different on some level.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it's weird. There are moments where it feels more alone kind of, but I'm noticing more and-like yesterday, was it yesterday or the day before-I was at my apartment or whatever and I had this moment, one of those moments where like, ‘wow, when my mom dies that will be it.' You know what I mean? And then it went even further it was like, yeah, even your old Assyrian friends, like wow, umph, like that's you know, but for some reason I was able to rein it in, you know, it was like, yeah, well one day I'm going to die, too. What does that mean? That's, I, have a shitload of friends and networks and yeah, unfortunately, some people, whatever, I mean we're all going to go somehow. So, yeah, doesn't it somehow, somehow it's not. It's very sad, but somehow it's not that terrifying.
CLIENT: Um hmm. 12:50. Bye, Tricia. Thank you. Have a good day.
CLIENT: Wednesday at...
CLIENT: Thanks.
CLIENT: Well, for the first time in a long time I have a negative balance in my checking. Good times. Luckily when I got to the coffee shop I had to (inaudible) do I even have the money to buy a coffee. And I saw that I didn't and I was like the good news is I didn't immediately think I'll just put it on my credit card, but then I was like, ‘I think I have like 65 bucks left on my credit card which is pa ahhh, I'm just. I know it's fine, that these things happen, but I'm just really sick of it. Really a humiliating feeling. [00:00:21]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's very humiliating. I think when you're a dude it effects you differently. I would think. You don't feel very manly or, you know, just kind of an emasculating feeling. And the problem is, I have no choice, I mean there is no way I can last until next Friday with, not like, not one penny, you know, so I have to borrow a little bit from my mom, I don't want to do that. But I don't want to ask my friends. It sucks. Either way it just sucks. But, whatever, at least it hasn't happened in a long time and it's only happening because of these extenuating things I just paid for. It sucks.
CLIENT: (Laughs) Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean if I hadn't paid that, right, I'd have 600 and something dollars right now. Yeah, that's more than enough to get to my next paycheck. So.
CLIENT: But it's hard. Like I tried to get in touch with my uncle a few times last week and this week and yesterday he was like, ‘yeah, it's been on my mind to call you.' He was like they just finished renovating the new place here for their, I didn't get it for what, they don't have enough room so they, whatever. But, it was like of like, that was one of those moments when I was like, ‘yeah, see that's what it's like to not have a brother,' see what I mean. If there was a brother I could like, ‘listen man I (laughs) need to talk to you about this, like today or tomorrow, like. But, I can't really, and also he's older, he sounds stressed and tired and I just was like, ‘oh I have a problem.' You know what I mean? Like that combined with being broke, it's like feeling of like, ‘man, like it's hard to,' that's the tiring part really, is that I got to figure this shit out, always like alone.
CLIENT: No, are you kidding? George would be like, ‘how much do you need?' I'm just, you know.
CLIENT: Maybe not the way my mom, I mean he'd be more maybe concerned or maybe he'd maybe scold me in the way that like, you know, ‘what's going on? Why is that happening,' like, ‘you've got to manage your money better.' Something. Whereas my mom not only will like be made to feel bad, but then she'll start listing. I got the gas bill. I have no money, I got the gas bill and the water, and like she'll just go on and fucking on about all her bills and her fucking things. And it's like, ‘dude, forget it.' I mean, if it's that, if we're going to like have a pissing contest then forget it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, I mean like as long as I take care of my account, yeah, I (inaudible) pay it. Yeah, no. It's frustrating. [00:08:23]
CLIENT: ...you know it's a few hundred bucks a month, you know, whatever. But then I always think about, yeah, but you've totally I mean I know what I'm getting out of it and I know, like I know how generous you're being and how, you know, I know this is kind of maybe a unique thing, but you know, so it's not the annoying part isn't paying for it. It's like, ‘oh, fuck and I got to pay Tricia, too,' you know.
CLIENT: It's more that I'm doling something for myself, you know. And, it sucks that it has to be once in a while, like this. You know what I mean? That's more what it is.
CLIENT: Oh.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it is.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I know it is hard. It is hard.
CLIENT: She does, and that's what I'm saying, that maybe this time she might be like, if I say, ‘mom, you know I just consolidated my lo you know there's just all this stuff going on,' maybe, yeah. I don't know, I don't know. She is very happy about that. She sees that. She's not that, like, blind, you know. But, I also know her and I'll just be like,
CLIENT: But yeah, I don't know. But, yeah, I mean yeah especially when they give me the paper thing, I'm always like, "awwww," but you know it's not, I only feel bad because I just want to write a check and be done with it.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: I don't know if' I'll have extra money, but yeah, I mean I don't know, I hope. I mean now the thing though, now it's just 400 that has to go to the loan which is good but yeah, I don't know. Basically, I need to make more money. You know, I don't see, it's not like suddenly I'm going to be having five or a thousand dollars extra coming. I mean it is what it is.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Well that's what I don't know if you noticed but I was trying to like pay a little extra ...
CLIENT: ...so, you know it would be nice if like every week I could just put in an extra 75 bucks, 100 bucks, whatever, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: (Deep breath)
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean I don't know, it's like if I try to start this business I don't, but even that the problem is in these moments it's hard, it's not as bad as it used to be because I feel like I'm, yeah but it is hard. I do have little panicky moments where I'm like what the fuck, I have no money. Like, and yeah, if I start this fucking tie business tomorrow that's these things take time, you know.
CLIENT: Investment. Risk.
CLIENT: You don't know if you're going to make it.
CLIENT: It's like that's just scares the I don't know, that scares the fucking living shit out of me. And then I get a little angry because it's like, ‘yeah, but I do have money.' I mean, you know, like (inaudible) and so then I get more angry at my mom that really she's, you know, she's in her fucking 70s and she's got her fucking claws on the house and it's like, ‘dude,' you know. [00:14:28]
CLIENT: Like, you know. I don't know. (Rhythmic thumps) You know, so that's a freaky thing because I feel bad feeling that way, but on the other way I'm like, ‘you're fucking retired,' I mean what, if you're going to retire, retire. I mean there's shit I could be doing that will help my future. You're done. I'm sorry, but this is it. You're retired and you're living your life. Fine. But, like you know.
CLIENT: Not more, but. I'm just saying that she doesn't have this problem. You know what I'm saying?
CLIENT: I don't think she has thousands and thousands of dollars tucked away somewhere. I'm just saying that, you know...
CLIENT: She's making ends meet and ...
CLIENT: ...she complains like there's no tomorrow. But, she's okay.
CLIENT: I'd raise the rent on the first floor. You know, I'd really try to figure out this home equity line thing.
CLIENT: No. In her mind the help is kind of like you know, ‘let's if we just fix the if we get the mortgage fixed instead of variable and have a nice low rate then I don't need anything. So that way you don't have to worry about me. So then you'll be okay. And I can kind of see that but that's all kind of like it's still kind of based on her. Do you know what I mean? It's like, well we don't have to even, that's not that's fine, but I mean I'm worried about me. I'm not worried about helping you. (Laughs) That's yeah, I'd like to help you but I can only help you when I really, completely get my act together.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, no. There's none of that because she's so angry that she's not being helped...
CLIENT: And then I think I need to somehow find a way to make a little more money on the side. I don't know.
CLIENT: I'm still not, still not going to do that.
CLIENT: I think ...
CLIENT: I think my problem is there's something in my saying that it's time to do something more drastic than that. That shit's not working really. Like I know lots of people that work at Starbucks on Saturdays or some shit. That's great. I guess that pays their electric bill or some shit. But, I'm saying that there needs to be a bigger, something more drastic has to happen to generate more income, quite frankly. Like, I'm not going to bust my ass for pocket change so I can go have some beers and whatever and, which drains me in a different way. Then I have no desire to do anything creative. It's a different, you know what I mean? I would have to tutor a lot. You know, then, yeah if you're making 60 bucks an hour. (Clears throat).
CLIENT: There's something about it.
CLIENT: There's something about it. Something about the tutoring. I just don't want to. I don't know what it is. I just feel like I did it, it's time for something else. I just can't ...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I just feel like, this is not the its about the you know what it is? It's like sometimes I do that trick where I'm like, ‘what kind of life do I want to live?' Forget about what's real or what's happening. You know, I think that's really useful. Like I do that a lot now. I'm like, right now, what do I want to be doing? And a lot of times like, not this. In terms, well, not in terms of the other stuff, but this is not how I want to be living. You know what I mean. Like this. And to do the things I want to do, I really need to make a bigger chunk of money. Like a chunk of money. You know. So, I'd rather devote myself to making that happen somehow, you know, instead of tiring myself and running around and like it's just, I'm tired of it. I'm just tired of it.
CLIENT: To not worry about not only not worry about money, to really not (Laughs) worry about it, like to not, you have to do a little calculat well, okay so if I have 200 bucks left, you know. I don't know. I just want to not think anymore. It doesn't even. I don't even need to be ri that's the funny thing, I don't need to be rich. I just don't want to think about it. I just want to be like, ‘all right, you know I make five grand a month, four grand a month, that's, for me that's more than enough. I'm good, it's all good, you know.
CLIENT: Oh, I could retire. No, I would be retired. (Laughs)
CLIENT: You know what I mean. You know what I mean. I'd be ...
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: So you know, it's I mean I thought about that, too. Maybe I should just look for another job, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Something else could make up that 20 grand.
CLIENT: I know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I just feel that something's not working with that kind of stuff. I've tried that. I've tried like some freelance editing. There's something about that that's just not, I want to be freer than that. Do you know what I mean? And I want to make more than that. Like if I'm going to go through all that hassle, like this is the thing: more and more I'm like what am I going to do? What really makes me sad and angry is that I'm not tapping into my potential at all.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's just me. You know. The most I'd have to deal with these people I'm buying the ties from. I don't give a fuck. So, that's one. And two I'm just I'd almost rather be piss poor. There's something about and I don't think it's pride I don't really don't. I think it's like I'm going to be who I'm going to be I don't give a shit if that means I have to go (laughs) into a negative balance.
CLIENT: Does that make sense? I don't think I'm off the mark here. I did try like hard to get into Brown and I did. I didn't even try that I didn't even ask my publisher to publish my book. I thought, ‘oh, if I keep working at it a couple of years, the record, my first band, the record, this record, it's like you know what? This is all happening with some super will power stubbornness. You know, other people a long time ago would have been like, ‘you know what, dude? I'm just going to law school.' Fuck this, you know. So...
CLIENT: Well, it's literally not me. That dude that goes to that's not me. I'm like, I feel like I'm playing a part and like because it's so, it's not like, ‘oh, well, you know, I'm getting my master's in teaching, so like oh, fuck yeah, let me rake in this money and get the exper you know I hate, I hate that whole feel of like, ‘(inaudible) like what's going on?' and this fucking douche bag's super fucking wealthy and you know part of the tutoring is you have to talk to them, right? Well what are you talking about? You're talking about all the amazing things these rich assholes do and it's not even the jealous God bless them, I hope they do more than that. I'm just I'm not going to be that person that says, ‘how wonderful. So you've lived in Switzerland and you,' or whatever like shit that they do. It's like, you know what, man, that's not me. You're not talking to some chump like, because that's the other thing is that a lot of these students, yeah, they're friendly and all that but at the end of the day you're the little monkey American to you. That's just the way it is. And it's like, you know, dude, I don't think so. I'm not 25. I'm not, I don't give a shit if I have to sleep in my car. That will suck to no end, but... [00:34:24]
CLIENT: Which has then made me not work to my potential, not made me achieve the things I really, I didn't even want to go to Brown, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I think the bottom line of what I'm trying to say is that I've always been made to feel bad that I don't, as if I'm like a dilettante, or like I'm lazy or super like unrealistic. But, you know what? I've worked my ass off like these just happen to be the things that these people don't understand and I don't give a shit about. And I'm kind of tired of that. It was like, ‘no, I don't think so.' Like, I am working like all the fucking time. That's what artists do, always working. So I'm tired of like apologizing for that or muting it, or constantly making it or suppressing it because I need to make like $250 this week you know. I have done that for many, many years. That's one, but I would continue to do that if I was 25 or maybe even 30, I don't know, but I'm just, it's as if like physically I can't even do it anymore, my mind and my like, I can't breathe. I just can't do it.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Exactly. I would have never fucking gone there. Never. I was in the middle of a great program at Amherst that I loved. I mean, that's, how do you not lose your fucking mind. That's maddening. I can't expl like there are no wor and this one thing I was saying into the recorder is like, ‘this is why I'm having trouble writing and literally don't have words. I don't know to say, like what is it I want to say in my book that I want to fucking bitch slap my family. You know what? I'm speechless, kind of, at what's transpired.
CLIENT: Well, but not literally, not artistic words, but yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Well, no. It was something.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was actually kind of really cool. Just drive around and talk into this thing. Yeah. I'm going to do that like as often as I can now ‘cause I think that I'll then just have a big file of all those things and then...
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, that's what happened. Yeah. You know now I remember things I talked about that I could say here.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: It was more like I just couldn't breathe and like yeah.
CLIENT: And the one conclusion I did come to though which was great, that's a step, I was like, this can't be a memoir. It can't be. Because, you know, what's my point in the memoir. ‘Oh, look at how unique and difficult my life was?' Are you kidding me. There are people dying every fucking day, living in abject misery. I'm not going to be one of those douche bags, that middle class white guy like I don't want to be that guy. It's really novels, art is the thing that makes those things more real actually. Oh! Before I forget, can I ask you a related question but it's not about this, not about therapy, but do you know people at Danvers (sp?)?
CLIENT: I e mailed some people quite a while ago so I do have a specific plot now for the novel but it kind of evolves from Danvers (sp?) . Like is there anyone there, would there be a way for me to go talk to one of the, almost like interview a couple of the psychologist's or just, and just see like...
CLIENT: Yeah, ‘cause I e mailed a few people and I never heard back. So, I don't know.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: That's the only thing. I was like am I really being rude by asking this, but it was like yeah but I'm writing a book, I'm not, I don't want to see the patients and be weird.
CLIENT: Do you think it would even be okay to call and be like, what's going on?
CLIENT: Is there someone I could talk to?
CLIENT: I mean, yeah, right?
CLIENT: Okay, all right.
CLIENT: At 3:10.
CLIENT: I think it came out really well.
CLIENT: Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, my friend just texted me. He's like, it's already on Spotify (sp?).
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Laughing)
CLIENT: Thanks. Thanks. Yeah.
CLIENT: Better. Yeah. Better. Up until maybe yesterday or the day before rehearsal I'd just been like super wound up. I think there's like too much, like it's a lot to take in. The record. The release show. The poetry events. There's just a lot going Jason got back to me about the anthology.
CLIENT: And like he wants to do it if it's -
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: The Eastern Europe one.
CLIENT: Yeah. That one.
CLIENT: I mean they do anthologies if it's like original content and it's not thematic like trauma or, you know, if you do an anthology of like contemporary Italian poets they'll do that.
CLIENT: So that's there's just a I don't know, I'm just like a little off. This is what I was really like I think for a day or two I've had my like, I almost felt both euphoric and kind of let down a little bit. But then yesterday we had such a good rehearsal. I mean it just went to another level that now I'm nervous about Saturday but now I'm just really excited.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: So yeah, no I felt good, I mean, I don't know, but man, it's yeah, it feels pretty amazing.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Suddenly it's like everything's taken a leap so you know, it's a little intense. See, I've been, I mean, I've been having those days where I feel like I can't breathe and stuff, just like feeling kind of yucky and focusing on the physical a little bit, not sleeping very well at all. Now, I'm just excited. So, I'm just I'm not sleepy. Like I'm up like plus the businesses I want to do like -
CLIENT: Like it's just so much.
CLIENT: Fuck. Yeah. It's just a lot of stuff. So, I'm just I don't know. It's like this has never happened to me so I'm trying to figure out how to be, kind of.
CLIENT: Yeah, right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right, right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Right, right.
CLIENT: And in some ways it should because -
CLIENT: time is of the essence a little bit, so you know it's like it's a good thing, but it's definitely like you know, even good things can be exhausting or cause anxiety or -
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. I mean that's I think I need to be careful of not like letting it literally cause anxiety attacks or something. Do you know what I mean? Like, ‘cause it's been pretty I've been like really high anxiety, really.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, I don't know if it's pressure because it's maybe, yeah, I don't know.
CLIENT: Well, I don't know if it's like pressure or just like fear or you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true. Right. Exactly. That's why I'm saying I feel like it's so more healthy. I've been reminding myself what am I, crazy?
CLIENT: I doing more things than people ever do and yeah, I'm fucking nervous and anxious, you know. But yeah, you're right. Where before it was like, ‘why do I feel that way?' Or, other people don't feel this way. They just do it. Whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right, yeah.
CLIENT: No, I know.
CLIENT: It's a lot, yeah. It's a lot.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah I think it's, I don't know, I just feel more like lately, I feel I mean I'm still more comfortable in my skin, but I'm having more moments the past few weeks of being suddenly aware and that can cause anxiety, too.
CLIENT: Like I'll just be aware, like ‘oh this is great.' Like, ‘it is so it is like you know what I mean, like -'
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's good too, like wherever I was stuck at 19 or 20 it's suddenly -
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: So much more, like now I feel the way people say that I seem. You know what I mean? You know people always say, you were so calm, like mellow. You seem like you're like you used to have your head on straight and like you give all those good advice, you know and now I feel that way. Now I feel like -
CLIENT: Yeah. It's pretty cool.
CLIENT: It's, it's you got to, I don't know. I don't know how people get by without being in therapy. I don't know, but.
CLIENT: That's what I told her. I was like, you know you feel this way because of course you do like why the fuck would anybody want to be in therapy, like I don't want to be in look, I don't want to be in therapy.
CLIENT: I mean that's the thing the few people that know about this, I do kind of forget about this. They're like, ‘dude, what the fuck?' They're like, ‘dude, you're in there three times a week?'
CLIENT: It's a lot of balls.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean you gotta face up to things you don't want to face up to.
CLIENT: No, no, no, no. Fuck that.
CLIENT: That's okay.
CLIENT: Thank you.
CLIENT: So tomorrow at 3:10.
CLIENT: Good, bye. Thanks. Have a good day.
CLIENT: Oh thanks. Aw fuck me. I'm sorry.
CLIENT: All right, I'll come back.
CLIENT: I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Okay. That's fine. Okay.
CLIENT: Okay. So I'll just drop off – I mean the rest of the offices will be open so I'll just drop it.
CLIENT: Cool.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I will. I will. So what's up?
CLIENT: I'm pretty good, pretty good. I don't know, pretty good.
THERAPIST: Good. CLIENT: Yeah, really excited because of the show tomorrow. It's so awesome like yesterday I was a little, I had to put the CD in my computer just to see how it comes up so at first I was kind of bummed because the artwork wasn't showing up.
CLIENT: Well you know when you buy a CD and you put it in, the artwork –
CLIENT: Do you have iTunes?
CLIENT: You know how on iTunes when you go to your songs it shows you the cover of the CD and stuff, yeah. So I was excited to see that ‘cause otherwise it just looks like you're putting in a burned CD. So nothing came up. The titles came up but I was like, oh, what the fuck? So I tried to e-mail the company. I called them, whatever. And then, I don't even know what I did and then suddenly there it was. And I was like, God – it's awesome. So that was cool. Then I went to iTunes and it's up on iTunes. It's awesome, man. I'm psyched, I'm truly psyched.
CLIENT: Is it?
CLIENT: Thanks, I appreciate it. Thank you, yeah. I'm excited. I'm glad you liked it. That's great. Yeah, I'm psyched. So yeah, it's good – I can't believe, it's kind of cool how fast this stuff happens now like they did a great job like just in terms of production and getting it out. It's kind of crazy like I didn't even talk to anybody. It's amazing. Like I just off loaded stuff in their templates and all that – boom. It's just unbelievable. But yeah, I'm psyched.
CLIENT: Yeah, I thought it was going to take another week or two to get it all on iTunes and all the different, Amazon and all that, but – unreal.
CLIENT: No, no, no. It's literally the manufacturer. There are manufacturers who print CDs right? So what they've done is they've partnered or whatever. They do the manufacturing but then if you pay them, I think it was only like an extra 50 bucks, if you pay them an extra 50 it goes all through everything. They put your artwork onto all these like – and they do everything – iTunes, myTunes, all that stuff. And then they also – you don't get a payment from each different place. Like they do all that for you and pays you. I just sent them my publishing name, my fee was only 100 bucks. I did that and I get an e-mail saying, you're good, you're all set. Here's your online account to register the works, page, time. That's like wow, man. That's crazy. I mean I remember being like 17 and sending a tape to the Library of Congress. It's just exciting. And then yesterday I did something where I really know things have changed. I just say down and recorded one of my songs like on video, just on my Mac. I just recorded it like I made an acoustic, kind of raw version and I uploaded it to Videos and then today I was like, hey guys, here's a little teaser. Never have done anything like that but I think I'm going to start doing that. I think it's a good way to build a following because you know, you're basically playing as if I was playing just by myself in my bedroom.
CLIENT: It's literally a video of me playing. I just set up the laptop just to film me.
THERAPIST: That's what I thought. I didn't know whether what you were talking about was just the audio. CLIENT: No, I just set it up to video me and that's why the audio – it's not a garage band recording or whatever. I just played into the computer and it came out awesome like it's – and that was the thing. I wanted to do something where I'm not thinking about polishing it. And the crazy thing is that I'm able to watch it. I've watched it several times and I like it. Like I like the way I look in it. Like nothing about it bothers me. It's pretty cool.
CLIENT: Fucking huge. Yeah, yeah. Like I feel like, wow, like it's like all these things – I always use that analogy but it's like coming of out the closet, you know, it's like this is what I do in my bedroom, like these (unclear) [00:06:46] shit, load up fucking songs and I'm serious, like I'm not fucking around so it feels good to – I think that it will be a good way to just keep people's attention and get new fans and – but also for me it's nice to just be loose and my guitar isn't like perfectly tuned. I didn't change the guitar strings and I didn't care. It sounds the way I wanted it to sound. And even tomorrow we're going to play three brand new songs that I have not finished the lyrics on so I'm probably going to be just singing nonsense, like I just don't give a shit. People won't know what the fuck you're saying and I don't care and even if they – I just don't give a shit. They sound great, so.
CLIENT: It is. Yeah, that's why I used this analogy several times because that's how it feels. Each time there's like this big thing like this although now more than ever it feels that way, but now it feels – it's like you said, it's sped, speeded up, sped up. The blog went up today. [00:07:59] The thing I did for them with my reading. And I was like wow, that's crazy. I don't give a shit. I'm not even going to share this friend now because I have a record to release tomorrow. I'm going to save that for Monday.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's kind of fucking awesome. And even Connie yesterday was joking. She was like, what did she say? She made one of those little jokes like, man, I can't remember. You know how (unclear) [00:08:27] have all those songs like I hope my successful friends fail or whatever. You know? It's like (unclear) has these great songs and she made a joke like that. She's like – I don't know what she said. You know.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, to me. She was like kind of joking like, oh, I know what it was. We were saying – she lives in Taiwan now so we were like – she's kind of going through a hard time, it's fucking Taiwan, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, but it kind of works because I'm up so late. She's up at the right time so we can chat and we were just saying that it was so nice the last time we hung out, like it was a really nice day here and we were hanging out by the river just having some coffee and chit-chatting, whatever. And she was like, yeah, it'll be great. It will be another time where you are telling me how well things are going for you. Oh that's what it was – she was like, yeah, I'll tell you I can't find a job and I'm probably going to break up with my boyfriend and you'll tell me about all the books and CDs you're putting out and your awesome girlfriend. It was like pretty funny. I was like, dude, you don't even know. It's not like that.
CLIENT: And get a load of this shit. I heard from Michelle last night.
CLIENT: Isn't that weird? And not only did I hear from her, she was like – it was crazy, I miss you so much and I haven't stopped caring about you. It's so deep and it was like waaaa.
CLIENT: I mean I did, you know, I mean we've had some friendly exchanges because she's seeing stuff I'm doing or whatever. That's fine you know but I wasn't expecting that but you know, I miss her too. I mean I do – you know, it was bad timing. I think because she's doing a lot better. She has her own yoga place. It seems like she's way more grounded and yeah. It's kind of a [moon planet] (ph). [00:11:24] when I think about it I still do have a lot of deep feelings for her.
THERAPIST: So it was nice to hear from her. CLIENT: Oh yeah, it was great. I mean, what are you going to do? She lives in Montana.
CLIENT: You know, she's from Montana.
CLIENT: So what I think I'm trying to be very aware of is not to get – maybe it's because of the people I've dealt with, like Samantha or Michelle – I always have this fear that like of anything that's manic. Do you know what I mean? So I just want to make sure I don't get too – I don't know what the word is – euphoric, or too excited, or to, you know – it's like – which I don't think I have been, but then I was kind of laughing at myself yesterday because it was like – but what I think of being manic is just because I'm not used to just being happy and excited and having that buzz, so I think I'm just being weird or something, you know? Like I'm so not used to it, like yesterday I was e-mailing people and like drumming up PR, you know, like am I being weird? Like, you know, I'm, like, hey, Tricia, I hope you can make it. Like, what am I saying? Why is that weird? Like, you know.
CLIENT: Again, it's like I'm so not used to it so I feel like am I being manic? Am I being too – I can't explain it. I think it's just a euphoric feeling that I just, to be just so kind of excited and happy about something and reaching out to people, you know. Like I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I mean.
CLIENT: Yeah. You're doing things.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Exactly. Whether it's perfect or not or yeah.
CLIENT: It's funny too because really this all started kind off in San Francisco. San Francisco was the one good thing that came out of San Francisco was that, I think I said it in here that what the fuck, everybody and their mother is a want to be celebrity? Are you fucking kidding me? I've got a suitcase full of songs over here and I put together a band there. That was the first –
CLIENT: I even paid (laughs) I worked at the music library when I was going there so I paid, there are a lot of things like hey, I'm a rep at this record company you know. For a hundred bucks I'll listen to your demo, in retrospect, complete bullshit of course, but when you're 19, 20, that's – so ballsy to do it. I called this lady and I went to some fancy office on Hollywood Boulevard. I played her these tapes, you know. And that was back then. I hated the way I looked. I was completely awkward, or I felt completely awkward and weird and just – oh but I'm saying is that I did it. But the problem was that if you're not –if you don't' have this, if you're not being helped in things that are kind of serious then that stuff just gets all fucked up or it gets – it just doesn't work. I was in music school. I should have been so excited. Music school is good school, but I just you know –
CLIENT: I was just going to school there. I was doing literature, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah. I transferred to school out there. I was going to go to Berkeley but –
CLIENT: I was going to go to Berkeley but they were packed. They weren't accepting new transfer students so I transferred to – again stupid. Like why would I transfer to a super expensive private school but I did. And I went and it was okay. But again, I was just removed. I kind of made friends, but I didn't. I was just in a fog. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: No. I went for this girl and it just – I don't know what. I was just in a fog. But being the person I am and having – well school, what about transfer to, you know, but then when I got there I find out – a year into it I find out that they have this amazing music school. So I took my guitar and I faked, I pretended that I was playing some Assyrian folk song or something, literally, and I just made up shit in Assyrian to this like classical guitar professor and he was like – and he was like, you've never taken any lessons? And I was like, no. And he was like, oh, this is amazing. And I was like, yeah, you know. So they accepted me but you know. That space was not, I didn't even get what I had just done, do you know what I mean? Like no idea.
CLIENT: Staring the literary journal, writing for the newspaper. Doing amazing stuff, yeah. Not to mention just being alone. I mean one way, yeah, my mom helped me or whatever, but the fact is I was alone in the middle of fucking San Francisco. Yeah, four fucking years, that's –
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what it is. Yeah, that's exactly what it is.
CLIENT: Also I think part of the problem before was that I was angry at myself for evening having done all that. Like why didn't I just come back after a year or six months. I mean there were a lot of things that I – but yeah now it's much more sympathetic and you know?
CLIENT: May. I turned either 20 or 21 on the road.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Then Christmas of – I guess it wasn't really four years. Three and a half years. Christmas of ‘98 I think, I drove back. So in spring and winter I drove back.
CLIENT: USC. When I got there?
CLIENT: I think it was. I don't remember that. I don't remember how that happened, but I think it was. It was just immediately. Yeah.
CLIENT: See, you're asking me something that's based on logic and that's healthiness. I mean when you're that fucked, I mean –
THERAPIST: It's hard to remember. CLIENT: I never knew what I was doing, even going to school. I mean the whole thing was a lack of knowing what I was doing. The other thing I did was I took film class and like I enjoyed it. I acted in it. At one point me and my group did a short film around campus and I was one of the actors in it. It was weird and like I did that.
CLIENT: You know what the problem was? I was doing things without guidance, without proper mental health care, you know, so it was just – I was seeing, all I can see – that's why the PTSD makes so much sense to me. It really is like a vet who has moments of – for a month he gets a job at a construction site. But then like three months later something – he just stops going to work or he gets back on the wagon or off the wagon, or whatever. The more I thought about it, that's exactly what it is. Or just as in one month a series of really bad panic attacks so that's it. Everything unravels, you know, stops doing homework, stops going to class, retreats from people. Stops paying bills, you know. It was always like a start and stop thing.
CLIENT: Not so much. No, no, no. This is – it's hardwired now. Do you know what I'm saying? It's more that I just don't want to – the more that I think of it, I don't think I'm saying anything other than I think it's disconcerting. I just have these moments of like wow. But I think I need to take credit for the fact that I know better. I'm being mellow. I'm know myself anyway. It's always been the opposite. I don't get excited enough about things. So, I'm not worried about it. Again, and also I think it is because I've dealt with people who really were manic and that really is a very disturbing – I don't know, so I just want to make sure that I don't –
CLIENT: Michelle was manic. She was the most manic. I mean cleaning the kitchen at 3 in the morning or just, yeah, just manic behavior.
CLIENT: Yeah. Constantly ideas, like oh I'm going to do this, and this. Like constant, you know. I know this girl who was like that. Every fucking week I'm going to this grad program, I'm doing this business. I just got this job. You know. And that – there's something about that that scares me even more than like just total depression or whatever. I don't know. There's something. Also, maybe in my family. I don't know. I don't think they're manic but.
CLIENT: But no, I think mostly it's just that I just that – someone comes out of the closet it must be like that, too. Like it must be like, oh you know, here's another day and people know I'm gay. Or whatever. I don't know what it's like but it must, you know, it's still –
CLIENT: Yeah, it's life changing. Exactly. So I think there are moments where like you said I suddenly feel like I'm on that roller – not roller coaster, but that speeding, you know what I mean, like, whoa. You know?
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right.
CLIENT: You know, I forgot. I was going to say yesterday, I felt kind of bad. I was going to thank you in the credits of the record and I didn't and I was like maybe that's not appropriate or something. I was like maybe that's a private thing, you know. But I wanted you to know that I was going to.
CLIENT: Well I don't know because I was like, look, maybe she doesn't want her name – I don't know. Do you know what I mean? And I was like, oh it's kind of a private thing. Maybe it's just – I don't know. But I want you to know that I was going to do that.
CLIENT: Oh you mean, oh you thought about it. You looked for your name then? Oh that's cute.
CLIENT: I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Who are these other people?
CLIENT: Yeah, of course.
CLIENT: Of course, I mean yeah. Yeah. If it was up to me every book, everything I do for now on would be, thanks, Tricia for – I mean yeah, of course I thought about it. I just you know, I almost felt protective in a way. I mean that's just between me and Tricia.
CLIENT: Thank you. Thanks, that's – I mean, that's an understatement. The most understated thank you in the history of thank you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm always worried in general, I'm worried about thank you – can I go back and forth on the whole thing of thank yours? In this case because of Kickstarter some people went above and beyond so to speak, so like –
CLIENT: It's funny but now a lot of times when I'm like driving or if I'm quiet, a lot of times it's weird. It's as if I'm like scanning. I'm like, I really am getting used to, it's like wearing a new suit or something. It's crazy.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's super exciting.
CLIENT: Yeah. But in a good way. Good enough. Sometimes things I guess should be unnerving, otherwise they're not you know –
CLIENT: Yeah. Well that's the thing. All these new songs are already so much better.
THERAPIST: So we have a week? CLIENT: Yeah. It's going to be interesting. (Both laugh) So Wednesday after.
CLIENT: Cool. Cool. Have a great vacation.
CLIENT: Yeah, thank you.
CLIENT: Spring break. [00:00:08] So, I don't know. We wanted to go somewhere just for one night so I rented – there's a pretty nice inn. Yeah. That's something. Just a little getaway.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was good because it's kind of off season so it was pretty, it was like 100 bucks, like costs. I just got a – I was like two minutes late because I just got some good news just now.
CLIENT: Our tenants are moving.
CLIENT: Well (chuckles), that is good news because my mom rented that when I was away. And she was just so nervous, she just wanted it rented so for – since like fucking 2006 or something we've been getting $300 less than market value. I mean she hasn't – why, because of the way she is, she wouldn't let me really raise it. You know, like all that stuff.
CLIENT: Something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well she was always like, raise it 20 – like it was nonsense. I was like, I'm not going to – 25 bucks. Like it's not even worth the hassle. You know, like, I was like you know what? They're going to move at some point. They're a young couple. Most young couples after a couple of years, they're out of there. So in April they're out of there. It's awesome. So I'm so excited. I can like – and it's good. It's good timing because my mom now, she called today. She was like, she even told them to call me. So today I went down there and she was like, you know something – you take of it. It's your thing. You know, I trust you.
CLIENT: You know, it's just that average rents are around 1900. These people are paying 1450 for a beautiful –
CLIENT: And you have to invest money and I don't know. So I just suddenly felt really, I mean really anxious. So I'm like fucked, so that's it. I've got this job and I don't know, I just feel yeah. So this makes me – it's something and it's a few thousand dollars a year that we weren't making. Yeah, it's been a big money – yeah and then I got letters. That was a good thing. I got letters from Sally Mae and school saying your debts have been paid because of the consolidation so, I don't fucking know. There's a lot going on. Jason wants to publish the anthology. But now that means I've got like a year to look at like between 20 and 40 poets to all agree to be in an anthology, to have good enough poems to be in an anthology.
CLIENT: That's a lot of work. I'm writing my novel. I meet once a week – you know that woman that moderated I told you? We're meeting once a week to work on our novels together.
CLIENT: You know what the weird thing is? It's really weird. That my novel idea was inspired by her late husband and she's writing about her grandfather who my uncle who passed away, my uncle was her grandfather's student and then was the archbishop who presided over his funeral. Her grandfather was a major literary icon. So yeah, it's weird. So we both I think have been – it's kind of neat. Like she's kind of like what my mom isn't. She's my mom's age or something – 68 or something like that. You know. It's kind of cool. And it's good for her. You know, her husband's not around and I think we're both getting a lot out of it. But also, just for the writing. We both have really – it's not – I'm kind of done with like writing workshops but this is more of just a one on one – it's like two really good friends who care about each other and just try to support each other at being just very honest critics in their criticism and stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, so it's making the novel much more – now I have a working structure. I have way more details. I have a bunch of stuff, so. But it's making me all very anxious. The record. I did a whole new, like taught myself how to make a mailing list on the website. I'm following it. It's like a google analytics. I know exactly who's clicking and when, how many times. That's kind of like crazy. Samantha's clicked about 17 times on the record. I built an online press kit. The band – just a lot of stuff. I recorded my first electronic song. Yeah, it's crazy like a prolific, weird time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, for example how would the business run if I went on a tour, even three, four, five days? How would that business run?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's all about just hope. Like I met with Lila and she just off the cuff joked around about the job. I guess, I guess the boss over the company was like AP and Donnie are going to be busy for years. You know, so like that's good. [00:09:42]
CLIENT: Yeah, there's a lot going on. Now I'm doing their business textbook, whatever and all this crap. And they haven't even gotten started yet on the grammar thing so that's -
THERAPIST: It's a really good gig. CLIENT: Yeah, it's a lifesaver. It's a lifesaver. Like I – it really is. So if I could just – yeah, like you said, I think I just realized – you know man? I just put in – really, what would that be? Three hours a week to make like 150, 160 bucks a week? Are you kidding me? I just got to suck it up, you know? I was like, I'll just do it the way I want to do it. I don't want to do it every single day.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or that. Or that, right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, this would just be me.
CLIENT: So what I'd do is I'd charge like – if it's the school they charge like 70, 80 bucks and they give us like 30 or 35.
CLIENT: Well see, that's the thing. What I'd do is I'd charge just 60. That way they're getting a better deal. And sometimes even 50. Fifty bucks an hour to tell someone what a preposition is? You know. That's fine with me. But yeah, the main thing has been I'm not – I just have to find a way. This is not going to let up, like all this stuff that's going on. So I've got to find a way to be – I've been very, just like tight. My shoulders, like everything's like –
CLIENT: It's just a lot. And then with Kelly things are like fantastic but I definitely, I feel weird like that flirtation with this other friend that – remember I was telling you? Yeah, it's like I don't know, I'm kind of into her, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't think more so. I think the other friend might be a little more, definitely a little more unstable, you know. But Kelly definitely is a little more like – we even had a little talk about it Saturday night. I was like, does it make you feel uncomfortable? Like, you know, I kind of feel like it's something being a long time now. You've told your son about me and she won't say no, there's no love you. And she's not even big on compliments. She doesn't really – and that hasn't bothered me because it's just actions and her actions obviously say it all. I can tell how much she cares about me but sometimes either you want to hear things or you want to not feel bad that you're saying things. So we had a little talk and she was – she got a little defensive. She was like, well I don't know what to say, like that. And she was like, I think that might be an issue for us. She was like, I'm just not – she was like, I've never had this before. She was like, I've never had a situation like this before where someone's so honestly, genuinely saying things to me and it's hard for me to – and that's fine. I understand. I'm a little worried about it like I don't know what that means, that kind of – well I guess I know what it means but you can't rush things, but it's been since October. I also was like, well why did you tell your son? So you told your son but you're having trouble verbalizing certain things. I don't know. But then when I think about our actual experiences together, it doesn't feel that way. Like the moment she looks – I just know. The way she just does it instead of saying it. You know, she's so sweet and so affectionate and you know, I know. So, whereas with Bethany she is very expressive. She's very – the passion is right on the surface.
CLIENT: A little bit. With Kelly I feel that she doesn't really, like she's only asked me too many things or something. I don't know. I feel like I kind of get the conversation going more and then we have a great conversation but I don't know. She's a little – it's not often that she'll ask me how my mom's doing or my grandmother's doing. Like she'll say, how are you, how's your day or whatever but I don't know. Like I feel like – it's hard to explain. Or I played her that electronic song I did and I almost felt bad. She was like, oh that's good, that's really good, you know. But it's weird. I don't know how to explain it. I'm trying to be careful and like, maybe it's just me. Obviously, I have such a need for feeling like I'm not a failure. So I want to be careful of that. At the show she was like, you are a – she was just floored, you know.
THERAPIST: She was expressive then. CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, totally. She was like, you're amazing, you know. But she is a little bit more aloof. You know, she's an artist so we are totally equals so I think because of that I'm maybe not used to, she's not like gaga over every little thing I do. She's like, oh great. Oh that's fantastic, that's great. You know, it's just very – you know what I mean? Whereas in the past it's been like girls, they're like groupies. They have these moments where – and you know it does feel kind of good for someone to be like more effusive, whatever. So, wow. And then that makes me, if I go down that road, then I go back to the way I used to be – well, she's a little heavier than I like – you know what I mean? Like I saw some good looking women – like I went out to Portsmouth with her and her girlfriend and – do you get out to Portsmouth often?
CLIENT: I mean there are some – Portsmouth has some of the most beautiful women in New England. I don't know what the fuck goes on there, but every bar we went in we were out and it was just like – thin, just really, really – so I'm trying to – I don't know, I'm feeling a little, it's hard to explain.
CLIENT: Yeah. And also then to be careful that I'm not over reading because her actions are I mean, she's the one, like you know, this past week was like you know it would be fun to see you more than just Saturday or like you know, the girl's – for a mom who has a kid, a job, is an artist, you know, she's obviously – her heart's there. I'm just – because I'm so sensitive to that now, I guess people who have trouble expressing themselves worries me a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think it's two different things. With the art stuff – that I'm more careful about that because I knew that that's just a deep painful thing from the past where I just need people to tell me that I'm good, that I'm amazing. I just know that now. Unfortunately it matters to me that people respond strongly to – normally. You know what I mean? Do you ever stop to think that's it's healthy? I can't keep telling you you're pretty. And then -
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. Obviously you're into it. You love the sex. You're into me and sometimes you need to hear things. I mean shit, once in a while to heart, ‘yeah, I like that shirt. You know.' I mean she tries in her own way, but – she always calls me babe or baby, or whatever. She's very – when we're out she'll suddenly put her hand, like she'll scoot near me, you know. I mean – so I feel bad – like I don't want to make her feel bad about it. But I do feel like, you know what? I think I've been really good. It's been months. I just want to put it on the table.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So I don't know. Yeah, see, I mean –
CLIENT: No, it's just crazy, like I've been in this place for like, I haven't been taking Ativan but like today, yesterday, like man, maybe I should just pop an Ativan. I just feel like tight and just like I'm hyperventilating or something.
CLIENT: I've been feeling it since I woke up. I'm also a little hung over. I went out with Bethany last night and I – I don't know, lately I think booze is getting to me a little bit more than usual. Like while I'm drinking it I'm okay but like I wake up feeling shitty. So I woke up just feeling crappy on top of everything else.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, if you're already feeling anxious and stressed, yeah. But yeah, that whole thing like yesterday, Bethany and I just kind of had a talk about it and I was like well I don't know what, yeah. I was like, I don't know, I'm kind of into you and that but I'm not an asshole. But I also feel like I'm married with children. But at the same time obviously I have a girlfriend and I'm not trying to – I don't know, I'm just confused. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: A part of me is saying, just don't even think – like don't sweat it too much. Just do what you're doing. Things are fine with Kelly as long as we don't step over any lines like you know.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: Oh, and then she – and Bethany's cool about that. She's like I don't want to – first of all I don't want to be an asshole, like I met your girlfriend at your show. I don't want to be an asshole. Second, I really like you and I wouldn't think of you less, so then I would think, so that's – because let's say we did get together –
CLIENT: Exactly. Also, she said, this is so great. She's like, I mean, we don't know what's going to happen, right? I mean so this way we would have an awesome friendship and if something, whatever, down the road, then we could say that we have this amazing – like it's not, respect that.
CLIENT: You know what it is? I haven't seen you in a while. Like there's been so much going on. I don't know if I'm articulating it. It's like Jesus Christ I'm having a panic attack.
CLIENT: I look at all this shit that I'm – oh Jesus Christ.
CLIENT: It was fine, by the way. Yeah. I was like, that felt good, too. Yeah. I'm all right. I can deal with it.
CLIENT: It's amazing how I, I'm so fortunate. You know, I keep like – what is happening here? I met an amazing girlfriend, some other amazing chick who is great to hang out with and like I mean, I don't know, it's very, like we were saying before – I just feel very, a little, in certain moments I feel very disconcerted or something, unsettled or something. And at other times I think it's literally adrenalin or something. I just feel like I'm like running a marathon or just – I'm up at all hours of the night networking, checking fucking Google analytics. I think – it's tweaking the website, fucking – I don't know, like just. So it's all good, I just don't – I'm not used to this, you know.
THERAPIST: And when you're sharing that, yourself with her it sounds like there's an intimacy that's there. CLIENT: That's the other thing that's there. Yeah, we have this weird immediate openness with each other. Yeah. And with Kelly, too, I do feel – I mean she doesn't share – it's not that she doesn't. It's the way she shares it – there's something about it that, something. But I do with her. I think I'm falling in love with her. I guess. Lately I'm starting to question a little bit, but. So I've told her stuff, but see the problem – what's happening is I tell her that stuff – the kind of stuff I tell Bethany for whatever reason I almost feel like I have to reel it back because she'll just listen and be like, well that's totally understandable, like it's really hard to – it's just very something, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Bethany's very like. Yeah. Well, the other thing with Bethany though is Bethany is definitely flightier. She takes ADD medication. She used to be a stripper. She used to be – she's lived. You know. And that worries me too. Because that's someone who – and no offense. I kind of don't – there's something about people that studied psychology or like Michelle's doing her psychology Ph.D. My friends were social workers. I don't know – there's something off about them. I don't know what it's like. Fucked up people trying to study something to fix themselves kind of. That's what I mean. I don't know what your background is but that's why this is – there's something about you that doesn't – that's very different. But even other shrinks I've seen before you, there's something about them. I don't know. There's something off putting. So that's a red flag a little bit to me. I just worry. She's in a band. I don't know. She's a little bit honest. She's been honest – oh, she blacked out. That whole kissing thing? We talked about this. She fell off her chair almost. I didn't like it. I was like you tried to make out with me twice. She was like, are you fucking kidding me? She got – she was like, I am so – that was one of the worse nights of my life that night. She went back to her ex's house. That's why I told her about the Samantha story. This guy kind of broke her heart, you know. She's been trying to – months ago, and I guess she went back to the guy's house and he wouldn't let her in and you know he told her he was going to call the cops if she – she was like at rock bottom – she was like that was rock bottom. So then that's why I told her about the Samantha thing. Like don't feel – like that's just human decency. Someone can just come out and obviously see that you're in distress and then can tell you the next day or something that wasn't cool. I was like, that's not cool at all. Obviously, you're not a lunatic. You're just hurting. But yeah, she told me about how when she drinks sometimes she's like you don't know, like I just wanted you. But she said, I've had times when I've blacked out and I've lost friends. I've said very mean, hurtful things to people. So you know, that's – she's complicated.
CLIENT: Big time.
CLIENT: Probably the healthiest thing is just to focus on me a little more and just kind of do my stuff and not get too caught up in – I mean at the end technically, at the end of the day I'm just dating somebody, quite frankly, right? Once, twice a week. There's no reason to get so careful with that too. That's what used to happen in the past. I don't want to do that. Just let it be. If ‘it's broke, don't fix it. And if it's going really well, Bethany's a good friend and like I'm not going to – I don't want to be that guy anymore. Like in the past, that's almost being too nice in a way. That's where it's being too nice. You know what? Yeah. I have this friend. She's hot and we kind of flirt a little bit, but you know what? We're not doing anything tough like I mean, I think I need to be a little more not to overly sensitive about that for my own sake. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, you're right. That is true.
CLIENT: What's the ultimate, like what would all the right pieces be?
CLIENT: Not to mention, if I was with some of my guy friends they'd be like, are you kidding me? I mean first of all, there are guys that have already fucked Bethany. First of all, but second of all, they're like, you don't know what she's doing in Portsmouth. I mean, not that you want to go there but you can't make it sound like she's some pristine, like you're somehow – do you know what I mean? Do you know what I'm trying to say? She's a person, just like you're a person. And she's a beautiful woman and don't – and it's not like she's some spinster, you know. Like don't make it sound like you're some mischievous, or something like you're doing something wrong or – I don't know. I don't know if that makes sense, but – in other words, it's another way of putting her on a pedestal and being overly – that is being overly nice or even naïve to some extent. I think it was that way with Michelle. I'm sure at some point she either cheated on me or something like especially towards the end. Because when I look back on it there were very clear signals that something was off. But because I put her here I kind of didn't – it was all about me and me feeling shitty and me pretty over analyzing every little thing I was doing or saying or whatever. So that feels better this time. I'm like you know what? There more important things I'm working on which I think is the way she feels. Like I really, really like this guy and want to spend some time with him. I don't want to see other people, whatever, but you know what I mean. Like I have all this stuff going on as well so I want to just take it easy. That's fine.
THERAPIST: Even just the possibility that she's in a slightly different phase in her life having been married and divorced and having a child is not personal – I mean nothing personal about that, that you are just trying to figure out, okay, where you are and where she fits – how does that fit together? How does that not fit together? CLIENT: And for example – it's a little thing but it's a big thing. I mean does this jerk even want to have another kid? She's 38.
CLIENT: It's not a little thing. And that's kind of important. I mean I do have at least one kid with somebody. But clearly that's something we can bring up now. Do you know what I mean? Like it's just I don't know. All this stuff, but – yeah, that's enough. She's sweet about it, like her friend's husband just left her. This fucking douche just left her. I haven't met her yet but from everything Kelly's said, she's a very nice older lady and she had called her yesterday and was like, I'm really sorry I have to take this for a second. And they were talking and Bonnie was going to pawn her wedding ring so Kelly says something like, you know, listen, I remember like I love my ring but that was the first thing I wanted to get rid of. Like you've just got to – and she was very – and I really didn't care. Honestly, it didn't bother me and when she hung up she was really – she was like, by the way I'm sorry, like you didn't have to hear that about the past. I was like, no it's okay. She was like, no it's not okay. I'm sorry. Like, to me that says more in a way than a compliment. That's someone who is really a thoughtful person, considering your feelings.
CLIENT: And that's the thing. I'm not sure. I worry. I think the bigger, overarching thing I'm worried about now is – it's a cliché but I'm starting to worry that I'm getting to that age where I'm just kind of settled. I kind of like my life in a weird way. I'm worried that I'm – when I imagine like wow, everyday living in the same place with somebody and not having the freedom I have now, that's kind of freaking me out a little bit.
CLIENT: But what you're saying, I'm trying to figure out like what is – what am I talking – what is it that I want? That's kind of worrying me that I – like I have a thing about Samantha-tage – women who I've been crazy about. I want to think, like wow, okay if Samantha came back to me today I would be like, okay, let's do it. I left my husband, I don't like wow, I don't know. I've got a pretty sweet set up right now. Peace and quiet and so I don't know what I would do. I think right now all I'd want is just maybe verbally a little more reciprocity but beyond that I think it's pretty awesome the way it is.
CLIENT: It's totally night and day.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's called – yeah, I listen Bethany, don't fucking start that with me. I've got lots of social worker friends. Don't give me that.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. We're just having a beer and talking. Settle down.
THERAPIST: Again, I hear edges of anxiety of criticism coming in. What to me sounds really exciting – to be able to just now have some space to get to know what you want. And it doesn't have to be what anyone else does, what anyone else tells you you should be doing. If you don't want to get in a long term relationship, get married and have kids, maybe you won't. CLIENT: And I was just thinking, I was glad I brought that up with her. Because yeah, that's kind of what I walked away with. You know what, I'm not even upset. I was like I'm glad I said that. I'm glad I brought it up just so she knows that that's what's going on. But now that that was her response, because it wasn't a bad response at all. It was a very brief conversation and that was it. But I was alright, now, I think maybe it was a bit of a reminder. You know what? I'm just dating this chick and yeah, okay, it's been months but whatever. There's no reason to get all – because that was exactly – what am I saying, do I want her to move in tomorrow? Just enjoy it for what it is.
CLIENT: No. I don't think so. Or at least I don't know, I don't think so. A. She's fun. B. Like I said, I'm just – I'm just now enjoying being in – things are so different now, I don't want to just rush into something else.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, you're right.
CLIENT: That's what I'm trying to say. I don't know if I'm kind of in that period now where men or women get a little (unclear) complacent, a nice routine, you know, I don't want to be that guy. It should be a little uncomfortable and scary and yeah, you're making a big change. Because otherwise you know, you blink your eyes and time is flying by and there you are sitting in your apartment with your cat. And there's nothing wrong with that but if you are someone who is social and who enjoys women or men or whatever the fuck, at some point you can't – like you said, you have to decide what's my – what are the things I can live with. No one's perfect.
CLIENT: Yeah. Why?
CLIENT: I'm trying to think about what I was thinking about – I shouldn't think of it as anxiety. That's again putting it in negative – you know, it's like really more like a rush. That's what it feels like, you know? It's just like constant adrenalin. Like holy shit – like I cut a record. Holy shit – I learned how to do a mailing list and I can see every single person who's clicking on the website. Like holy shit. I can work on the next record. I have nothing to do. That's record's done. It's actually done. Or just a constant – like a novel – holy shit, I'm doing this thing every week with like – this guy wants to publish an anthology. Like it's all coming at me. Because otherwise if you keep saying we have to – it's like making it a negative kind of –
THERAPIST: (Unclear) you want to see is anxiety, doesn't – it must have gotten a really bad rap and you're feeling like – [00:52:36] CLIENT: Yes.
CLIENT: You know when you – earlier when you said it, I felt bad.
CLIENT: I was like, shit, I look anxious or something.
CLIENT: Right, right. Any which way you go right now there's – your life gets – there are pros and cons. You're right. There is something about anxiety and depression in my family that is an automatic bad – it's a weak thing.
CLIENT: Yeah, well that's what I said. It's important feeling like anxious about certain things. It's telling you what's what in relation to you. Like how things are in your life.
CLIENT: That's right. That's right. Yeah.
CLIENT: One? Yes, I'm putting that in my phone (unclear). Is it one – one o'clock sharp, right?
CLIENT: Thanks, Tricia. I'll see you then. Oh! Was your vacation good?
CLIENT: How's it going?
CLIENT: So, have you listened to those?
CLIENT: What's the quality?
CLIENT: Really?
CLIENT: I'm thinking about maybe getting one just like that. I'm just not good technologically. I have something that's a bigger version of that and I can't – that seems really easy to use.
CLIENT: A hundred bucks.
CLIENT: (Whispers) (inaudible). [00:00:32]
CLIENT: I'd like to try to record our practices and I usually just do it on my iPhone but a lot of times I forget. But that will just keep going right? There's no limit on the time?
CLIENT: So I could just put it on and you can probably edit that.
THERAPIST: Yes. Sure. CLIENT: So yeah, we could just leave it and forget about it.
CLIENT: So I decided something yesterday. I was talking to my friend Drake. Not this Drake but another Drake. I got to chill out. The whole, like – I was up till okay – get a load of this. So (unclear) are running a different electronic type thing on garage bands. Around like 12 o'clock or so I just got so absorbed in it that I don't know why, like an idiot I didn't plug in my adaptor, I mean the whatever, it's the Mac, the cord so it shut down. I lost a shit load of tracts. I was (unclear). [00:01:45] So instead of – the good thing though I was instead of just being like losing it and getting upset I was up till 5 in the morning redoing it. That's all great, but something's going on here. I mean it's good – I mean I like it in the sense that that's awesome, I'm in a place now where I'm working, fuck ADHD. I was super focused, you know. But I think I've got to like, when I talked to Drake he liked helped me – I didn't really say anything but he's been into music and stuff and he's more into promoting and selling and producing and all that, different kinds of music, but still it's the same concept. And he was like, man, you're not going to really see – he's like you're really not going to see much in terms of how the record's been doing not till like six months – actually like a year. He's like because the life of a record is three to four years. And when he said that in my mind I was like why am I, I'm like constantly – it's like I've worked so hard on this thing and there's so much pent up – it has nothing to do with the record. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's just me. That I just want immediate – I want people to hear it. I want it to be out there. And it doesn't work that way. It's not the record's fault that I'm bringing psychological issues to it. And then I relate that to the electronics – it's as if I'm running, I'm sprinting. On the one hand it's good. I feel super like – that record's done, like I'm just – the [nomics] (ph). [00:03:45] I'm trying all this experimental stuff. I'm recording, I'm teaching myself how to work. That's great. But I gotta calm down a little bit. You know. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: And even with the electronics. I'm already like, is this really good. It's something like I'm already like being an asshole to myself about it. I just taught myself how to use this thing. I'm making the kind of songs I never would make, kind of dance-y more indie, dance-y stuff that I would never do. So just fucking relax, just have fun and play it for a couple of friends and make it just be fun. Then if it's something, it's something. You know? Yeah, so that was really good to talk to him just be feel like you know I do have to think of it now like a business kind of. You don't get – when you open a practice or whatever you open or start you don't get returns immediately. I mean you gotta be patient and you know.
CLIENT: Well, and the thing I reminded myself too is, again after talking to Drake, the thing feels like I also have to remind myself – I don't know why I'm not treating this the way I treated my book. I guess poetry is so different. It's just such an internal, intimate, so I wasn't like, oh, well this book better win the Pulitzer, you know. I was just excited that it got published by a prestigious press. But with the music I don't feel that way. It's such a mass – this kind of music is such a mass thing. It's just you can't help it. That part of you, you want people to hear it and validate it and you don't want it to get lost in the vacuum. But that doesn't make sense. They're both art and you have to be like, you know what? What's it going to matter? Let's say tomorrow a million people hear it. I'm probably going to be as wound up as I am right now. Do you know what I mean? I need to remind myself that that's me, it's not a – and Drake made that point. Like, he was reading my mind while we were talking, but he's like, you know it's never going to be enough. It's like when you work so hard on something that's an art form, it's never, it doesn't matter how well it does, if you're looking for some kind of something out of it, it will never be enough. Of course, that's totally true. You have heavy rotation on MTV. And then I'd be like, yeah, but that's not really – I'd find something and I don't want to be like that.
CLIENT: Exactly. Today for example, I woke up and a friend of mine who I haven't seen in years, I mean years – and even back then we were friends but more like really good acquaintances, I woke up and he had written a review of the record on his Facebook page. I don't know this guy to ever write. He's a kind of conventional, kind of square, really good guy, but you know. It was so sweet and so like honest and just how much he loves the record and has giving these, you know it's not even my kind of genre really, but he's like, it's so good. So instead of just savoring that, you know like again, I immediately got kind of caught up in I want more of that and how do I get more people to write. Do you know what I mean? Instead of just enjoying it, this guy went out of his way to – it's like my mind is constantly – you know? I'm definitely not savoring is all I'm trying to say. And not only that I'm already way ahead. I'm getting way ahead of myself.
CLIENT: But it's hard because it is an old thing and that's the problem. It's like I know intellectually, but there's all this old stuff that's like finally we're back to – but the problem is I'm not 17. So because of that I think there's like this rush to feel like I've got to get things done fast and that's a harder thing to – it's hard not to let that make you feel very, very stressed and anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, of course.
CLIENT: Not really. I mean if he did he died before I could really find out, you know. I just know that he didn't really discourage me. He never discouraged me from writing. So, I don't know. That's something I'll just never really know about how he felt. He never told me to stop playing. He never told me to be quiet.
CLIENT: No. He didn't tell me to be anything.
CLIENT: I was just thinking about that. Yeah, he never told me like, let me teach you about cars. But their whole family is like that. My dad's side is very unusual that way. They just really don't – they're just very unusual.
CLIENT: I think another big thing, too, was I got a – it's definitely more so than any other recent time it's become much more like schematic or whatever, I'm very focused on like – so I got to –
CLIENT: Yeah. The same with my mom, too.
CLIENT: Yeah, I have thought, not in that way, I think it's the flip side of the same coin but I have been thinking that maybe part of it too is that just like the record's out in the world and my book like for the first time which I didn't feel this way with the book but I think because of all the work I've been doing here and stuff, like now I feel like I'm out in the world. Do you know what I mean? Like I feel like yeah, I whatever, I live in the same house, my family's all around here, whatever, but now I feel – something feels unmoored like I feel like, yeah, I will probably at some point play a show somewhere far away or I will – like I can tell, you know what I mean? I can taste certain things and that's I think scary, unsettling, because I think it also connects to, like wow, because then I'd feel like – not that I'm completely alone but I am. It's as if I'm – I don't know how to explain it, you know, I'm completely cut from the fucking shitty umbilical cord to my family that – and I have no brothers and sisters and like I am, this is it – I am living my life and my life is me which is you know – there's all this stuff, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like I'm embracing these things really as careers now, I'm doing things seriously. Things are going relatively, you know, pretty well, you know – hopefully will continue and my mom's getting older. Do you know what I mean? Maybe there's something going on there, too. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true. Yeah I was thinking about that.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: It's a psychological bind.
CLIENT: Whatever. I looked all over the place.
CLIENT: Yeah, I've done all kinds of things. I've traveled. It doesn't matter. Yeah. Yeah and I guess that's a good point. In a way I've been putting myself down by saying, other people, they can move wherever the fuck they want but they still have psychological baggage and fucked up things that they can't get away from.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I can feel that it's super healthy and I can just tell. And the way I can tell is through the change in my interactions with other people. Do you know what I mean? Like with a friend I was saying about the writing, you know, like just the way I feel among other people now is so different that I can just tell that whatever's happening as much as I might be freaking out, it's super healthy. Even on Monday night I went to the bar. I know these like bartender type people and whatever and this guy, and this other guy, were – they're good acquaintances, they had a D.J. there like one Monday out of the month. That's kind of fun. And I kind of – it's Monday night so I kind of like to blow it off but so I went and I went alone which I didn't want to do and it was cool. Like I didn't feel uncomfortable, not that I would have before but I would have felt a little – we're friends but we're not – so I'd feel weird if I was still, like am I supposed to hang out with them? But we're just going to – I just didn't care. I had a beer. I saw plenty of kind of acquaintance type people, said hi, chit-chatted. It was fine and I just walked around and said hi to this person and went over there and then came back and talked some more but like before I was leaving I went over and just sat next to them while they were spinning and I didn't feel weird. I just hung out for a little bit. And then it was like all right guys, I'm going to take off and it was totally fine. Dave was like, how you been, man? What's going on? Like, in the past I would have been weird about that. Like, what am I, you know? Am I trying to make these people my friends or like, do you know what I mean? They're happy to see me. It was like, AP's here, all right.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know? Again, instead of old, I would have brought all this old stuff, like are they really paying enough attention to me? Do you know what I mean? Like, those people are their real friends. That's their real crew. I'm just kind of like tagging along. Like I would have – just ridiculous. Like, who the fuck cares. I'm just here to say hi. They're happy to see me. I had a couple of beers and I'm going home. It's pretty simple. So things like that are feeling way, way, way, way, way better to the point where in the moment I'm not thinking about this stuff anymore. Or like going to a party with Kelly. I just didn't care who was there and like I didn't know anybody there. Who the fuck cares? And I was totally fine.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Well it's both and that's the crazy thing. It's also awesome because I noticed that my interactions are so much better as connecting with people on a very real level.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's probably, I mean one thing I was thinking too was that a lot of times when I feel this way, you know how sometimes I'll come and I'll be like suddenly I'd watched a movie and I sobbed. I wonder if sometimes that's what happens with this, like I just feel, you know what I mean? Maybe it's just like emotion that's kind of bubbling like trying to get out or something like that.
CLIENT: Is it called something, like is there a word for these different stages, or something?
CLIENT: That's what this is.
CLIENT: Post what?
THERAPIST: Kleinian? Melanie Klein. Who really thinks about the process of analysis as waking up the patient's capacity to dream as a focus and the idea being that there can be at the beginning of this process, pockets of deadness inside where things are not knowable and dreamable and creatable yet. And I think you're in this place where there are links being made so that things are coming alive and get to be known even – I don't even mean consciously, but in dreaming as the place to begin to process and have emotional experience, begin to have images and begin to have words for all this stuff that's been stuck inside without words for so long and yet in that process it doesn't mean everything's hunky-dory because to begin to dream for example, there are vivid images. There's terrifying things in dreams. There are crazy and strange things in dreams. And I mean dreams as you know, mostly like fantasies or night dreams also, but as things come alive there's – it's scary. It can be scary. Like what is there of life inside? And I think that's – a lot of that is happening right now. CLIENT: I do think of it like waking up. It definitely is, like that's what I was saying, it's kind of like being renanimated after being frozen like, sort of.
CLIENT: What's the guy's last name?
CLIENT: Yeah man, I think that is part of it, too. It's like I'm getting in on myself. That's crazy too.
CLIENT: I mean let's stop for a second. Yeah, you know. Do I want a relationship with Kelly? What kind of relationship? I mean all these things are – that's all a lot.
CLIENT: You're right.
CLIENT: Well there's something to be said for consistency. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It's not a crutch, it's just like it is like going to the gym, or whatever. Because when you don't you feel a little – you know.
THERAPIST: I got the same thought when I got your message. Really, Friday? CLIENT: Oh yeah. I know on my way over I was like, fuck, maybe she'll have some wacky openings next week. (Laughs). Not wacky openings, but –
CLIENT: Oh yeah? Cool. Okay.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Cool.
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Thank you. Thank you very much.
CLIENT: Awesome. Thanks, Tricia. Is it Easter Sunday?
CLIENT: Have a good Easter.
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: For March?
CLIENT: Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe because we missed –
CLIENT: Oh yeah, maybe because I was away and then you were away.
CLIENT: And then I was away. Okay. All right. Can we turn off the fireplace?
CLIENT: This is our first regular week again.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think so right?
CLIENT: It’s what?
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: No, it’s good because it’s, yeah. That’s good to have the routine. We’re doing pretty good. I told you our tenants are moving, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, so that’s really good.
CLIENT: They’re moving Tuesday or Wednesday. Yeah, things are going pretty good. So when I took Kelly out to Western Mass I had a little test that happened that I thought I handled pretty well. My mom’s been sick for like – there’s something going around, I don’t know, but she had this like awful, awful, awful cold and so I think the Friday – we went Thursday and then Friday she had left me a message and I was like checking up on her like every day. I was like taking her water or fruit or whatever the fuck stuff, you know, yogurt. And like on Friday she left a message where she was her typical like just kind of like whiny/where are you? What is this? Like, she gets like very you know and like it just, you know, it was like just really annoyed the shit out of me. Because I’m like what the fuck? Like one day, two days like that I check up on this fucking broad every fucking, cone on, you know. Like I’m trying to just take a little break with my girlfriend. You know I just – so when I called her I just let her have it. So it was one of those things again. That hadn’t happened in a while. I wasn’t a long conversation but I was very – I just laid into her. But again, it was one of those things where you know what? This has to happen. She needs to have a little smack down so it was good. It didn’t really get to me too much. Like a momentary thing and I forgot about it.
CLIENT: No. Because I – because she – she’s the type – it’s not, I don’t tell her any more certain things, you know. One night being away? I might as well just be anywhere but that’s not – she was just being super needy and just fucking whiny. Fucking ridiculous. It’s a fuck – you know that’s how they get. These things become catastrophized you know? Oh, I was so sick last month I couldn’t raise my head. I was in bed and oh, oh, oh. It’s just, it’s pretty ridiculous. So I was like, what do you want? I didn’t even say, hello. I said, what? What do you want? She said, what, what? Where are you? I said, it’s none of your business where I am. I’m around. It’s none of your business. I was like, I’m not going to give you reports on every little thing that I do so just get over it. And I just hung up the phone and that was it. And then of course when I got back I kind of gave her the cold shoulder when I got back. And of course she says, what’s the matter, son? You know I don’t want to bother you. I think I bothered you. You know, whatever. I was like, just, whatever, it’s fine. Don’t worry about it. You got issues.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well that’s always been – that’s always the problem. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. The difference now is I just call her on her shit and in the past what might have happened is I wouldn’t answer, but then that would only fuel her whatever the fuck’s going on in her head and then it would seem like I’m being bad just for not answering the phone for a second in case it’s an emergency, you know what I mean. So now I’m like, all right, I’m going to answer the phone, but I’m going to fucking bitch slap you and then I’m going to hang up on you. We’re going to keep doing this until you just get it. Oh, that was the other thing. Then the day before she comes in – I wanted to order pizza. I don’t – I haven’t been eating. She was so whiny, bitchy. That’s fine but I just said, mom, call Margaret’s and order a pizza. She says, but I don’t have cash. I said, give them your fucking card number. She says, oh, you can do that? Yes. You can do that. Bitchy little whatsis.
CLIENT: I remember that. Yeah, I do.
CLIENT: And the neighbors on our side.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yep. Yeah.
CLIENT: It’s totally – I mean that’s why, remember when, I think I told you I’ve had to even smack her down in front of others. It was like, you know I call him and he doesn’t answer. And I let it go and was like, why should I answer? I’m living a life here. It’s not a pager. Do you know what I mean? If it’s an emergency, leave a fucking message. I don’t know – just tell me the house is on fire, call me back. I mean it’s like I’ve really gotten very harsh with her on that – like if you don’t like it, fuck you. I really don’t care. I don’t care that my uncle answers his phone all the time. Yeah, he’s like bent in half and has diabetes and he’s a fucking mess even though he’s rich and should be enjoying his life. Oh no, that’s not me. So, yeah, it’s very tough love. It’s like I love you enough that I’m not going to cut you out of my life but I basically have to discipline, like I have to set the very strict kind of tolerance sometimes. Which she responds to. That’s what’s good about it. She responds to that. So that’s the way it’s going to have to be. You know. I don’t like that. It’s silly to have to do that to your own parent but that’s the one I think she responds to and when she gets like that, you know, it’s not all the time. It’s just – you know, other times it’s fine but when she gets in that space I just, I have no more patience and I just kind of – that kind of negativity is just beyond unhealthy.
CLIENT: What’s that?
CLIENT: No I haven’t.
CLIENT: Like I think this is closer to a normal relationship. I think a lot of people have with this kind of issue with their parents or something like this, I think a lot of people have these little conversations, like dad, like what were you –
CLIENT: I think that’s way more normal than pent up, pent up, pent up and then just a volcano, you know? The other thing is I’m trying to be more honest – like I was just honest with Kelly, like that was my fucking mom. Without getting into it, I kind of explained my relationship with my mom a little bit, but she gets it. She was like, yeah, parents. People get it. Very few people have great relationships with their parents.
CLIENT: Well I was a kid and also then even recently when I’m trying to still satisfy her – what’s the word?
CLIENT: You know, get validation or acceptance. You know.
CLIENT: So I guess what I’m saying is that there has been a – it’s been definitely building up to this with all this hard work but there’s a very, like I’m just very, I’m very focused on doing what’s right for me. Do you know what I mean? Whether that’s music or writing or projects or whatever the fuck it is I just – it’s finally become the priority.
CLIENT: Well I mean the fact of things I didn’t do.
CLIENT: That’s all of being compliant, right?
CLIENT: I wanted to go to San Diego State Universiry. I wanted to go to Armherst. I didn’t go because – at the time I’d found some – and I was a kid.
CLIENT: But clearly that was all her bullshit.
CLIENT: Her and her extended family’s bullshit. My dad wouldn’t have been happy but he would have gone along with it. I don’t think he ever said one word about Boston College or if he did he just – yeah, he’d be like, son, wouldn’t it be nice if you were like around. No. No, no. It was very like, I don’t remember ever any issues with him on that front. Yeah, no, definitely. I’ve thought about that a lot. I’ve made – there have been many choices I’ve not made because of this bullshit.
CLIENT: So that’s a very good thing.
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly. Now I feel like I’m reflecting.
CLIENT: And that’s sad just like a lot of people have. Like I don’t feel so alone like I feel like so many – I have this and other people have – yeah, I was fucking raped four times in my 20s or whatever, you know? People have other things that they look back on that have derailed them somehow, somewhat.
CLIENT: That’s right, yeah, yeah, I’m ahead of the game. That I know. I know that – not even with parents, I know that, finally I get even if just as a person that I’m way ahead of the game. I mean I have a lot of friends. Whether it’s their parents, people are just aren’t doing any self-reflection and working on themselves. And there’s a part of me that’s cliché, but I mean I don’t really believe, I don’t know, things happen for a reason or whatever, but things happen so I feel like, well I wouldn’t be as creative as – and I think that’s true. I wouldn’t have – my book wouldn’t be my book if I hadn’t gone through what I did. You know what I mean? I have to also think about that. And right now being so creative it’s well, so -
CLIENT: What’s that?
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: I would have what? What? What would I feel if I wasn’t so overwhelmed with all this stuff?
CLIENT: Oh yeah, I see. Yeah, I don’t see it as a negative. Like the more I thought about it I was like I don’t –
CLIENT: Oh.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: I think that the bad thing would be if it’s so consuming that it’s somehow alienated me from people or it, I don’t know, yeah.
CLIENT: No, not at all.
CLIENT: In a way it’s the opposite. In the times that you spend with friends or whatever are really nice because I don’t feel like I’m – in the past I’d feel like I was kind of fronting a little bit. I mean like I’d be with my friends and having a good time, but I’d be feeling bad, guilty that really I’m just being lazy or I’m not you know, whatever. But, yeah, I don’t feel that way now.
CLIENT: With relationship – with Kelly.
CLIENT: With Kelly you mean?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, totally. Totally.
CLIENT: I got some fan mail.
CLIENT: Off the record. Yeah. My friend’s son, he’s a senior in high school followed me on Facebook and was like I really loved the record. It’s awesome.
CLIENT: It’s actually a chick I used to like to kind of hook up with. She’s older than me a little bit but we kind of – it’s very, very friendly. She got married. She already has a son or something – this is her son from her first marriage or something. So then I guess she played my music or something and he was like really into it so when I sent the CD so that was really cool.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like nothing.
CLIENT: There still kind of isn’t, you know? I mean there is but there isn’t. It’s a weird combo.
CLIENT: No, it’s – yeah, it’s not amazement. It’s almost like – what’s the word? It’s almost like begrudging respect.
CLIENT: Oh, that’s awesome. Remember that. It’s begrudging respect. Like it didn’t matter that there were 100 people to see me at (unclear). It’s just like kind of proud – that’s my son, you know, whatever. But there’s no like wow, what the fuck? Nothing. Nothing. And here’s what I’m saying. Like even though my uncle and aunt were there, there’s not been one word after that.
CLIENT: But it’s such a – you can’t say anything because that’s sounds ridiculous to say something, like giving me attention, like what are you going to say? If you’re going to maintain a relationship with your family you’ve just got to find some other way to just distance and not you know, not let it get to you, but it’s insanity. It’s just insanity. I mean it’s a bizarre thing to have complete strangers constantly supporting you. You know what I mean? Like it’s pathetic. It’s fucking pathetic. But, and that does make me angry. When I think about it it makes me really angry.
CLIENT: That’s right.
CLIENT: That’s right.
CLIENT: There would be a complete disconnect. We’ve always loved you. We loved when you used to play piano. Yeah. They would sound completely asinine.
CLIENT: And they’d get angry. We’ve come to your shows. We were at your poetry reading to support you. You know. It would sound completely – I would sound like out of my mind you know, so there’s no way. I think again, it makes me feel good that I’m not alone in this kind of thing. You know children have to somehow find through this kind of stuff or some other way to work on the – you know there is no –
CLIENT: And it’s also helped to feel compassion. You know I’m able now to just take a breath and step back and be like it doesn’t – they’re not evil people. They weren’t sitting around saying how can we mess up Brian’s life? That helps a little bit. It’s like they’ve got their problems. They’ve got their issues. They emote. It doesn’t make it any better but it helps, you know it helps to see them as people and not as a fucking cabal out to get me, you know? Because in a way they’re all doing this to each other as well.
CLIENT: Well not only that, when I feel that way I’m being like them.
CLIENT: That’s how they are.
CLIENT: And whatever they’ve done to me they’ve done to each other.
CLIENT: Right. My uncle is the way he is because he’s the boy and they came from fucking poverty and he’s just driven by being materially successful.
CLIENT: Exactly.
CLIENT: I’m sorry.
CLIENT: Huh?
CLIENT: Oh my God, it’s a world of difference.
CLIENT: Oh are you kidding? That’s without a fucking question.
CLIENT: I wouldn’t give a rat’s ass.
CLIENT: Right. Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. That’s right.
CLIENT: Of course.
CLIENT: 12:50? Right.
CLIENT: Thanks, Claire.
CLIENT: So how (ph) doing?
CLIENT: So, yeah, I'm doing pretty good.
CLIENT: I had a good practice last night. Wow, it's going really well.
CLIENT: I was just sitting (ph) through some of the recordings. I just recorded some stuff on my iPhone and it sounds fucking great.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm really psyched.
CLIENT: You know, like it's funny. I was thinking like it's kind of like I'm circling the wagons in a good way.
CLIENT: You know what I mean?
CLIENT: I was thinking about this yesterday. Relationships-wise, this-wise, that. Like I'm just kind of just really taking care of myself, I think.
CLIENT: It feels good.
CLIENT: Well, I just mean like I'm not like, yeah, I'm going to... Like I'm not overthinking or dwelling or... And I think most importantly, I'm not putting other people's either perceptions or wants or whatevers, expectations, ahead of mine.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So yeah. I think I spent a lot of years like just feeling guilty and shameful or whatever. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Even in relationships, you know.
CLIENT: And I just don't now. It's just like eh... I just don't feel bad. Like tomorrow I was supposed to maybe drive down, and I just I kind of don't feel like it. [0:02:02]
CLIENT: You know, I feel like I saw her... I drove down there Tuesday.
CLIENT: I don't know, I just feel tired kind of like.
CLIENT: We're going to see each other Saturday anyway.
CLIENT: You know?
CLIENT: And I don't feel bad. I'm like yeah, yeah. That's not a big deal. It's not... And not to mention we're seeing... She's done that a couple times. You know, she... Which I totally understand, you know.
CLIENT: You know, she's [going to be] (ph) "I'm really tired" or "I don't think I can today, I'm sorry," or whatever. Yeah, no problem, you know. So it's like in the past I'd not think of that. You know, I'd be like "Oh, my God, I'll cancel," and trying to think something...
CLIENT: I don't give a fuck. Like I don't feel like it, you know.
CLIENT: And it's the same with family. I just kind of feel like yeah, just fine (ph). Like I thought yesterday was very symbolic. I was going to practice. [0:03:02]
CLIENT: And just as I was about to leave the house, my mom called me, again, like the fourth time in the same day, and said "Oh, your uncle and aunt and grandmother are coming over, so come to ..." I didn't even answer the phone. She just left a message.
CLIENT: So as I was leaving, they were coming in.
CLIENT: And I thought like I came around, because my entrance is in the back of the house.
CLIENT: So as I came around, I saw them and, you know, said hi to them and stuff, but I thought it was so symbolic in a way. [Did it mean] (ph) like "They're all getting together." I'm like "See ya," you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I just yeah. It's just like I feel like I'm protecting myself now, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Which I think what everyone needs. Even if you have lots of love in your life and a perfect family...
CLIENT: You know, People need to be able to be protective of themselves and kind of nurture themselves, kind of be good to themselves, you know. So I finally kind of feel like I'm kind of getting there.
CLIENT: Like it was interesting. Yesterday, after practice, Stu the guitar player, he saw some and he's kind of like protective. He's got a very thin radar for like "You know, what did you mean by that? Are you trying to be a dick or..." You know what I mean? Like he's very, you know... Not in a bad way. I think it's actually very sweet. [0:05:03]
CLIENT: It's kind of like protective of people, you know. So after practice, Grey had to leave right after practice, but we went to get a beer, me, him and the bass player, and Stu's like "You know, Grey's been kind of a bitch to you lately," to me.
CLIENT: And it was kind of cool, because Philip and I, we're like, he's 27, you know, and he's I wouldn't know if he was really -
CLIENT: trying to be a yeah. He's a little prickly.
CLIENT: And snarky.
CLIENT: And he's 27. He's covering up all his insecurities and all his little... He's got this hipster front that he has and does (ph) like trust I was like it's kind of cool that you're that we're all kind of protective of each other," you know.
CLIENT: But I was like "Dude, honestly, like I'd smack him down in a second if I thought he was really being some dick." He has like he's kind of awkward, and socially awkward, and his tact isn't very good, and his humor is a little bit like in-your-face kind of humor. And like and like some of the stuff, I don't mind it. You know, if he says "Yeah, I really like that part," it's very blunt, but I'm like I'm so confident I don't I know when I have a good song, and I just humor him and... And I said "Sometimes you might be right about certain parts." [0:06:20]
CLIENT: Yeah. So I was like "No, man, it doesn't, you know..." I just wish it was better -
CLIENT: No, not at all, not at all. And especially because I know when we play, he's fucking into it. It's not like he's like hating being there, you know, like -
CLIENT: So it wouldn't make sense for someone to be in a band and be an asshole. I mean that does happen, I guess, but... At a point where no one's making any money or anything, why would you put time into something that you're not...
CLIENT: I was just just a lot of things. I just wish he was a better drummer.
CLIENT: That's what matters to me. I just don't think he's... You know, I think we do need to try out we need to see what this would sound like with one really solid, tight drummer, you know.
CLIENT: Because we're all playing so well.
CLIENT: I think it could really elevate things. You know, and I like to look and at shows, people respond to him a lot because he's a very unusually energetic drummer, he moves around a lot.
CLIENT: So that's great, but it has nothing to do with playing the way I want to hear it played and that, so... And I guess my point is even that. Like that's kind of like sort of going you know, not like it's all good.
CLIENT: It felt good to have the bass player agree with that, so that I was like "All right, so I definitely am right about this," you know.
CLIENT: Because Philip was like "Yeah." He's like "I don't get that," so, you know, I... And Philip is like 45. You know, So like I think we had a little different...
CLIENT: Stu is like 33, you know.
CLIENT: I think he's a little he just doesn't like shit like that, he doesn't like it, and I don't blame them if it's real, you know. [0:08:03]
CLIENT: But sometimes you've got to cut people slack when you know they're just being either immature or... Or then they don't even real like they're just being themselves, and they're just trying... You know, it's not a big deal.
CLIENT: Not at all; that's the funny thing.
CLIENT: Especially something so personal. It's my music.
CLIENT: You know? Not at all. Like yesterday I played a new song. And he was like "Yeah, I still I don't know (inaudible at 0:08:40)." He was very blunt, you know? I was like "Yeah, whatever." It's like I just don't care.
CLIENT: It's like he might partly be right.
CLIENT: Or I might come back to that song, like "No, you know what? I really do like this song." It's how much doesn't bother me at all, you know. And that's different than saying, "Yeah, ." I mean Grey could be a little more tactful. [0:09:03]
CLIENT: And socially less awkward, but that's nothing to do with me or Stu or Philip or... That's just Grey, you know. He's a kid.
CLIENT: I think, like, the only I'm going back to what you said I think yesterday. But he's all like, you know the only thing that still does get me is when I stop to think about like what you're saying, like about, you know, all those years of like just kind of being invisible.
CLIENT: That you know, that's -
CLIENT: Yeah. It doesn't make me angry.
CLIENT: No. But, like, luckily, all this creativity and the way I'm feeling is counter-balancing that, because I don't feel stuck any more.
CLIENT: So then I can just look back. And again, it really makes me angry but doing all this stuff now and I feel, you know... Whereas, before, I felt angry about it and still in it.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean? I felt like it wasn't over yet, you know, but yeah. So... The hard thing though is that this whole kind of it's permanently changed the way I'll interact.
CLIENT: I'm like (ph) eh, you know... And if you're not going to make a complete like stop talking to people, then... Yeah, it's tricky, you know, because then you've got to be with people who you can't... It's an interesting balancing act. But I was thinking about that, too; it's like that's what people do though.
CLIENT: Right? That's what people do. They'll go to Tricia's (sp?) house for dinner, but they won't stay that long.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Or they [just won't] (ph) talk about certain things. Really that's in a way, it's like what I was saying yesterday; now it's normal. [0:12:11]
CLIENT: That's what families... They don't go over at each other's fucking and sit there for like seven hours, you know.
CLIENT: They go there, have dinner, they chitchat, they keep things light, and they leave, you know. They really don't they learn how to dose things. Like they learn what dosages they can handle with their aunt or their grandmother or their (crosstalk).
CLIENT: And that's all this is, you know. But now it's coming from such an extreme, [or if everybody up] (ph) each other's [by it] (ph).
CLIENT: Oh, well, yeah. [0:13:18]
CLIENT: Yeah, that part is sad, yeah, yeah. But some people I think it's the vast minority, but it's there. You know, there are a lot of people that love spending time with their families there.
CLIENT: I can well, we can call it love; that they like their families, because to me, that's different.
CLIENT: I love my family.
CLIENT: And I really go out of my way for them.
CLIENT: But that's different than liking them as people I just want to have coffee with. That's very different, you know. Like my dad's side, I love them and I like them. I want to hang out with them.
CLIENT: I'm going to joke around with them. I want, you know... My mom's side is more just obliga not obligatory, but I mean it's blood. I just love these people. And they have shown me love; it's not like they were beating me or something.
CLIENT: So it's like it's complicated. [0:14:06]
CLIENT: They just weren't giving me the kind of nurturing and attention and validation I needed. But there's lots that they wouldn't have done anything for me, and they have done a lot of things for me. So, umm...
CLIENT: So but yeah, I know what you mean, I know what you mean. There are a lot of families who they all seem kind of like they're friends and they yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. That that makes me not feel as bad, because that's a family problem.
CLIENT: And none of them communicate.
CLIENT: So that, that never felt like it's just me.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess what I'm saying was that part doesn't make me as sad as just not being seen and respected more and validated, you know. The communication part, there's a language problem. There's a, you know.... Because then maybe it's just I from an earlier age, I just for some reason, I kind of got that, you know what? I think even great families have this problem. 0:15:27
CLIENT: The new generation.
CLIENT: You know, it's hard to express certain... First of all, it's just it's an immigrant mindset.
CLIENT: There is no, like, talking about sex or, you know...
CLIENT: There's no... There's no, like, let's have a talk.
CLIENT: There is nothing like that.
CLIENT: And that's even in my friends, Assyrian friends, who have better relationship with their families.
CLIENT: It's not because they sit around and have, like, talks. It's just because they get along.
CLIENT: They just get along better, you know. But most of the Assyrian or other American families I know are more like my family than mine, the majority of them are.
CLIENT: I'm actually way better. The guys that we use when we do this and their mom lives one of them even lives I've told you he lives with his mom.
CLIENT: They never, ever... They just don't have a family these guys have always just not kind of cared. They take care of their mom, but it's a real old-school kind of... I mean I do talk to my mom, more or less. I mean I treat her with some respect, you know.
CLIENT: These guys are getting they don't take their mom seriously in any way, you know?
CLIENT: And a lot of immigrant sons are like that. They're not they'll buy their mom a house or something, but, you know...
CLIENT: Kind of like my uncle with his mom.
CLIENT: You know, he just he loves his mom, but it's very he really doesn't take her he never has taken her; I believe that seriously.
CLIENT: Umm...
CLIENT: You know, like my poor grandmother; she got her license back in '85. I remember, because and she called and I (ph) was all excited. And yeah, you know, my uncle was a young guy back then; he wouldn't get her a car. He sided with my grandfather, so really weird. "Oh, there might be an accident. You won't know. She'll get lost." And so all of these years this woman could have been, you know... So like it's just it's a family problem; like they just don't...
CLIENT: There's like a lot of invisibility, a lot of like -
CLIENT: Instead of saying "Wow, Mom, you came from this other... You don't know a fucking lick of English and you're just so energy (ph). Why you did it?" She said "I want to get a license."
CLIENT: "Let's get you a fucking car, like, just so you can drive..." Where's she going to go? To my aunt, to her other daughter, to be... I mean to the grocery store, to be able to do certain basic things like just... You know?
CLIENT: Just wow, very strange family.
CLIENT: Yeah. And she speaks soft.
CLIENT: So, you know, even now, in this state, if it comes up, she'll be like "My husband, he you know, all I wanted to do was drive a car and he wouldn't let me."
CLIENT: You know, like she's, you know yeah, she's a very... I mean now, you know, now my uncle will do like, you know, "Oh, if, you know imagine if she was born here; you know, she'd be some amazing woman." I said, "Well, she is a fucking amazing woman. You know what does that mean, if she was born... If you were born here, maybe you'd be a senator. What the fuck does that mean?" [0:19:07]
CLIENT: Like she isn't amazing? All she wanted was a car and to be she wanted to start businesses all the time, so I mean... It's just like...
CLIENT: Yeah. Definitely (inaudible at 0:19:46) from my grandfather's perspective, definitely, yeah, yeah; I (ph) used to take one. But it is weird. I mean it's so not manly.
CLIENT: Don't you go get your license? You moved here in, like, ‘68.
CLIENT: No, never got a license.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. So that's why it was so amazing that my grandmother did.
CLIENT: I've told my mom that, too, yeah; that when they've brought this up, I've told them. I was like "Yeah, he probably couldn't handle that: "What the fuck? I'm not going to drive if she is." That's, you know... He was old school. So there's probably some yeah. "She's going to n be my driver and have that power, you know." Yeah. But see, I don't know where my uncle stands, you know. He should have been like "We don't have... Dad, come on. I mean, you know, we live in the United States; we've got to drive, you know. [0:21:06]
CLIENT: It's weird.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, I was really thinking about this. It came up at Easter, because I was talking to my cousin's husband.
CLIENT: Like even, you know, my mom working.
CLIENT: Like, see, everything counts from somewhere, right?
CLIENT: I don't think of my mom as ever validated, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like I don't think that people have "Wow," like "Sis, good job," that "We're so proud of you." She never got them to show that (inaudible at 0:22:09). So it's all around. You know, it's all it's like a hot potato they keep passing around, you know? [0:22:19]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And you know, but that in a weird way, I've got to say I mean as much as I have issues with my mom, she's better at that.
CLIENT: Maybe it's maybe he (ph) gets more in her later years, she's gotten better. But you know, she's much more like she does say things to her sister like "You have such a beautiful voice. You should be on (inaudible at 0:22:45). It's a little late, but, you know, she's...
CLIENT: And I guess my aunt, too (ph). Sometimes my aunt asked me, "Are you doing these? What's going on?" Yeah, so I guess it's really my uncle who completely is there's just nothing [worth in there] (ph).
CLIENT: And my aunt who died, she was always she was always very she was more or less she would say things like "I'm proud of you" and stuff like that.
CLIENT: My mom.
CLIENT: Yep, my mom, the opera singer.
CLIENT: The one who passed away, and mom.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Had an aunt with two brothers who died when they were babies.
CLIENT: Yeah. From malnutrition; kind of just died, yeah, so there were six.
CLIENT: They both died.
CLIENT: No, they were twins, but they both died, I think as babies.
CLIENT: Oh, no, no. I'm saying that there were six kids. [0:24:01]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think it was my mom, then the opera singer, then the two boys.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I think my aunts, and definitely my uncle. But my other aunt I think didn't know them, I think, but my mom kind of remembers them. And I think that my the opera singer I think remembers them maybe a little bit, I think.
CLIENT: Okay (ph). Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's amazing, right? And my grandfather was the only one of like nine to survive. He was an only child, but yet he had other siblings who all died.
CLIENT: But yeah, that all was she was more something. I don't know, I can't put my finger on it, but she was...
CLIENT: Yes, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yes.
CLIENT: Yes, yeah. She went through periods where her and the opera singer aunt wouldn't talk, because they had things with their daughters.
CLIENT: You know. They both and fucking notes. And there was my mom. Yeah, her husband was a bit I think I told you.
CLIENT: He was kind of like cold and kind of weird, and my grandparents would take their side and... It was stupid, all stupid things but...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, that's a good point.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right, right, right. [0:26:04]
CLIENT: Right, right. That's why my uncle could do no wrong and they all just -
CLIENT: kowtowed around him, yeah. On the one end, they'll be upset, or like they'll kind of gossip about certain things, but he just can't do anything wrong.
CLIENT: Yes.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right, right. Yeah, yeah. No, she was cool. She was a cool aunt. Yeah, she had her issues, too, but, you know, her life was hard or, you know, her husband well, actually both of them. My mom was very lucky, you know. I had the most normal, in terms of parents, situation. Like her husband was just cold and kind of way older than her.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I think they're all kind of resentful. I mean they've gotten over it now a little bit, but I think it really hurt them; that their, like, beautiful sister... For so long, it was like this kind of cold, older, gruff not gruff, just cold kind of dude. And like now, he's fucking healthy as a fucking ox, and now his business is doing great and, you know, like I think they feel a lot of stuff for a long time. [0:27:33]
CLIENT: But I think because they also see how much pain keeps in.
CLIENT: That it's, you know...
CLIENT: Oh, I mean he immediately gets teary-eyed if...
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Like if she comes up, he'll immediately kind of like start crying.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, they saw that, okay, he's human and... Like things happen, unfortunately, so many times. It's only once someone's gone that someone opens up and...
CLIENT: Yeah. It's too late, but at least it's like okay, you know...
CLIENT: Now, with my other aunt, too; you know, he was kind of an alcoholic. And functioning; I mean he made a lot of money, a functioning alcoholic, but an alcoholic.
CLIENT: Retailer.
CLIENT: A shop owner, you know. So, you know... Didn't treat his kids that great. He had a bit of a temper. Stopped his wife from singing, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah. He was very possessive and wouldn't let her yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Whereas my dad never even gave a rat's ass. She wrote, she was on the radio, she was...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think you know, I think this is something you find in a lot of traumatized cultures.
CLIENT: It's that, you know, if you're out of my sight, anything can happen.
CLIENT: You know? And you know, that's why my grandmother is very you know, before she was sick, she's very she'd be like "Well, Grandma, I've got to go to..." "Oh, well, where are you going? Come back soon." You know, it's like this thing, you know. I mean part of that is just sweet, just love, you know. But part of it is -
CLIENT: Yeah. A lot of anxiety, yeah. A lot of anxiety, yeah. Again, that's why my dad's side is so unusual. I don't know how they it's weird. I don't know how they don't have that, but very, very different.
CLIENT: They're different. Because most Assyrian families do have more of that, more of my mom's side. They're just very up-in-each-other's business and...
CLIENT: It's funny though, and now that I'm thinking about it, it's my aunt who passed away.
CLIENT: Her both her daughters, especially her older daughter, my godson's mom... You know, I think I've told you.
CLIENT: It's funny, because they're the most of everybody, they're the most I don't want to say normal, but like they would really ask how I'm doing. They'll really inquire. They really want to hear. They really they're really supportive, you know? So it's funny how it's her, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean her husband has nothing to do with that, but he just happens to be that kind of guy, which is very genuine and asking and wanting to know and, you know, like...
CLIENT: Our cousin?
CLIENT: My aunt?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: She yeah, yeah. She didn't yeah, I see what you're saying, yeah.
CLIENT: She probably felt better about herself on some level, yeah.
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly.
CLIENT: A little more confident and grounded and yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Although one of her daughters isn't that. I mean she's awesome, but she's got a lot of issues. But I think that's just because she was young and her mom died, you know, so I think she's kind of fucked up from that.
CLIENT: It's actually that's a whole other saga. Like so those two odds have two kids each.
CLIENT: The opera singer and the one who passed away.
CLIENT: They both have two kids.
CLIENT: The older non-equi-listings (ph) were supportive of... Then there's Patterson, but then they have two daughters who are like exactly the same age.
CLIENT: And both of them are kind of like fucked up.
CLIENT: Like the one here, has weird social anxieties; doesn't have hardly any friends. He's a weird insomniac.
CLIENT: Has been with the same, like, high school loser forever.
CLIENT: Like a real kind of loser guy. Has weird anxieties; like he won't eat certain things, won't drink out of a glass cup or something. I don't know, just kind of weird things. Then the other one, she won't drive on the highway. She's got certain... It's interesting that those two I don't know if it's because they both lost their parents when they were like still girls, like, you know, somewhere between 12 and 15, I don't know or if the mother is... I don't know what it is, but the rest of us all have our and obviously, there's me. But we all have our things, but not like they don't manifest the way they do with those two, you know? [0:35:12]
CLIENT: Like was she was like "I just like do. I didn't give up." She's like "I can't. Like I've tried so many days with her and I've still got an eyeball (ph) for to pay for her therapy." I've offered to..." And she's like "I just can't." I just can't deal any more with, like, negativity, you know?
CLIENT: So...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of like layers of...
CLIENT: At least with Ethel, my other cousin who's that age, her boyfriend is really nice. He's a physical trainer and he's like he's got a good head on his shoulders, you know. From what my aunt tells me, he really cares about not just Ethel, but just he has this kind of like he has concern for everyone, you know, so he's too -
CLIENT: Absolutely, yeah. But what's hard is that I've always tried, like, "Well, you know, I went through it. Maybe I can help her," because I... But she's just some... You can't force someone to... You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like I've called, and like, "Dude, literally you can walk here in five minutes, literally. Just come over," you know?
CLIENT: You know, she just won't do it, won't do it. And when she sees me, it's, you know I can tell, like it's there, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: But, you know, it must be just so bad that she can't even reach out and... And I know I've seen the way she's she doesn't want to talk about anything. She'll snap at her sister. She'll, you know... So it's it's tough. And that's I think for women, that's harder, you know what I mean? She's 30.
CLIENT: Ten more years, for me, it's like whatever, you know? But five years, ten more years, then slowly she's like "Fuck."
CLIENT: "I wanted to have a kid. I wanted..." You know? I mean I think it's different for women, you know, so...
CLIENT: She takes like a lot of not a lot well, I don't know, but she's been taking Adderall a long time.
CLIENT: So you know what I mean? So now that I've been doing that (ph), it's like I don't think she has ADHD. I think she's just super-fuckin' depressed and...
CLIENT: Yeah. Big times. Yeah, big times.
CLIENT: Like her face still kind of breaks out. She's always really thin.
CLIENT: I've done with all of them, I have, because all their parents they all lost one parent. So I've always been clear with them, that they can always, like, come to me or they can always talk to me or they can always, you know... Yeah.
CLIENT: I do find that it is kind of healing or something to do that, you know. It's sad, but I do find strength in that, you know, like. Because even back then, I was still fucked up. Like when my aunt was just -
CLIENT: Yeah. And I remember even then it was like, wow, man, I'm fucking tough.
CLIENT: I was the only person that my uncle, the one in the cold kind of at the hospital, I was the only one he completely broke down with.
CLIENT: We were just walking down the hallway. I don't know what I did. I think I just put an arm on him like this or something. He just fucking... I've never seen that. I never talked about him. I didn't tell anybody about it, you know. I mean, you know... but even then, I remember thinking like, man. I mean it's not cool, but I just felt, wow, I'm strong, you know?
CLIENT: There's something healing about that. You know, going from my aunt, you know, helping her clean the fucking blood off her kitchen floor, you know; that's a character builder, you know? It just shows you who you are, you know, so... [0:41:20]
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Yeah, in a way. Yeah, yeah. In a way, I got to know myself. I was like wow, I'm doing this now? Like, you know...
CLIENT: Umm, yup.
CLIENT: Yup.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. See, and that's all my dad. When I thought about it more, I was like "You know what? You probably did that with me," because I'm the thread to my dad, you know? And they all miss my dad so much. Because, you know, they don't talk about my dad, and that's always how you know that's a sore spot, you know? Or when they do, it's very kind of quick and you can tell there's something there, you know? So maybe that was... You know what I mean? Because that's who my dad was. He was really, really tough, but so gentle and sympathetic and, you know... Yeah. And it's funny, my mom sees that now.
CLIENT: Every so often, she'll be like "You lost everybody." He has such a good attitude. He sees the best in everybody. You know, she kind of...
CLIENT: Yeah. She finally I think sees that, you know, it's... Yeah, yeah. And she says it. She's like "He's like his dad. You know, he's very..." Or she'll say "He's a typical piece (ph).
CLIENT: You know, he just...
CLIENT: Or she'll say things like, "You know, he you know, he's all about fairness and "
CLIENT: You know, things being right, you know?
CLIENT: Which she is, too. They all are. [0:43:41]
CLIENT: But because they're so fucked up, they haven't been allowed to let that... Because they thought if they're like that, somehow that's weak or that's... Do you know what I mean? Like they're supposed to just be paranoid and just stick together and... You know what I mean? It's us versus them and you hear all this weird shit.
CLIENT: Three ten, okay.
CLIENT: Thank you.
CLIENT: Have a good day.
CLIENT: Someone lost it.
CLIENT: (Chuckling).
CLIENT: I'm really hung over.
CLIENT: Whoooo (ph). The thing about this job is sometimes we get together like at four, right after work.
CLIENT: And we'll play, yesterday. I really haven't been drinking as much.
CLIENT: No, no, no. What, the drinking?
CLIENT: Well, I mean I do I mean I do. When I'm out, I can still put them back. I just don't do it as often, you know.
CLIENT: And I've been so tired lately, just with just all over the place, that I think it's hitting me a little bit.
CLIENT: It's bringing out the tiredness more.
CLIENT: And it was really fun. I hadn't seen, you know, my buddies in a long time; it was really nice. But whooo (ph). [0:01:04]
CLIENT: (Sigh). Umm, luckily, Kelly (sp?) cancelled today.
CLIENT: So that works out really well (chuckling).
CLIENT: It's hard. I mean she teaches Saturday mornings, like at nine.
CLIENT: So I know that she's just trying to make an effort. She wants to be able to, you know... But it's totally fine. I'm just not feeling it today, so I feel good that I didn't have to cancel.
CLIENT: No.
CLIENT: I was going to cancel today, I mean.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: But then she texted me yesterday and she's like "I'm really sorry. I just, you know a problem." (Yawning), oh. So yesterday my friend called me (inaudible at 0:02:08) so cool. [0:02:11]
CLIENT: He's like "Man, I don't know what to tell you, but you have to do something." He's like "This is like..." He's like "It's a really amazing record." He said "I'm not bullshitting you, because I don't have to. You know, he's like "You've really got to be on top of this, you know, and make some (inaudible at 0:02:29)."
CLIENT: [All right] (ph). I know.
CLIENT: Yeah, he was saying, too he's like "I don't know..." He's like "I don't know what you, you know..." I was like, you know, I don't have the money to pay big-time PR people and all that, so I've got to do everything myself so... I guess it's a lot of time e-mailing people, rubbing elbows, making contacts, mailing shit, which can also add up, you know?
CLIENT: So... But it was nice to hear, you know?
CLIENT: And I umm, I was thinking today about why, like, I'm really tired and I feel restless, too.
CLIENT: But I kind of want to go out tonight. I kind of want to be out and about, like. I was thinking like what is that? You know, I wonder if it's still that... You know, I'm in this place where I'm just feeling really good and I'm not feeling guilty about things. I want to just get out and mingle and meet people.
CLIENT: And yeah, I don't know.
CLIENT: Or it's just nervous energy. I still have energy. I just have this need (ph), so even when I'm exhausted and it's like nervous energy, you know? Or not nervous energy, just energy.
CLIENT: And I was thinking about there's this music blog.
CLIENT: Which is a really good blog, and it's kind of like run by Assyrians. It's like really cool; Assyrian-type chicks, you know? So that was getting me thinking... So I was like, man, that's the kind of stuff that makes me sad, you know, like? I don't know how it would go.
CLIENT: But I do wonder. I wonder like if I had spent like a summer in S.F., if I spent four months in S.F., would I meet some of these chicks or would... You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like there's a whole new batch of like over-25. See what I mean?
CLIENT: I can kind of who are really cool, it seems like. I don't know, but they just seem...
CLIENT: Umm, then I'm like, oh, if I keep thinking this, then this must mean that I need to try out try what? I don't know but... Do you know what I mean? [0:05:07]
CLIENT: Meeting someone like that. Yeah, meeting someone like that, you know?
CLIENT: And these chicks are totally cool. It seems like they're all kind of born here, like me.
CLIENT: I mean maybe, because I could get together with them and, like, oh, fucking Assyrians. I prefer the kind of, you know... Yeah, it could remind me more of -
CLIENT: No, no, no.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. The grass is always kind of greener and blah-blah-blah, yeah, yeah. I guess the thing though is they're not true. I haven't known I don't know, that's kind of what I'm trying to say. I haven't even sampled it to know.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Well, in Cambridge I really tried.
CLIENT: I really tried to go out with Assyrian chicks here.
CLIENT: Here the problem is I always have to I feel like I'm settling, kind of.
CLIENT: I feel like if this chick wasn't Assyrian, then I have no interest in her.
CLIENT: Or I'd not be that interested, do you know what I mean? [0:07:05]
CLIENT: Whereas I feel like, in S.F., it's just like, you know, there are almost as many Assyrians as there are in Assyria.
CLIENT: You know, I mean it's sad, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like kind of obviously the Assyrian government doesn't want to push that fucking piece of fact.
CLIENT: But, you know, they say that there are around five million Assyrians in Assyria, but I don't know if that's true. I think there's more like three million.
CLIENT: I mean obviously you have I mean that's a lot of fucking people (ph).
CLIENT: But this area has at this point, this used to be a huge population, but, you know, girls my around, like, between 25 and 40, who are cool, who are like there's too many factors that I can't find here, you know. There's just not... You know, they're either just boring kind of whatever, or high maintenance kind of things, or princesses or... You know, there's a lot of stereotypes here. [0:08:15]
CLIENT: There are in S.F. obviously, there are in S.F., but there's so many fucking people. There are more people like just by default. There are going to be more people than I could click with, you know.
CLIENT: That's it, yeah. Now, of course, finding those people, making a real connection, being able I mean that's a whole other you know, it's a huge fucking city. But I don't know, I do wonder. I do wonder about that.
CLIENT: So I don't know. There's a part of it, it's like, well, if I can't save enough money to go to Assyria this summer, why don't I just go to S.F. for a month, $400 ticket or whatever, buy them ahead of time, whatever the fuck.
CLIENT: I have places to stay and...
CLIENT: I work from home, but that doesn't matter, you know. [0:09:04]
CLIENT: Because I do feel like I'm kind of like what am I doing. Like yeah, I did feel good. Like I'm kind of like flirting with this chick, that one; I don't feel bad. But then I'm thinking like yeah, but maybe part of the reason I don't feel bad is because I'm not invested in any of these the way I...
CLIENT: You know, I go with Kelly, maybe I'm not. You know, maybe I'm just... It's just convenient because she's also she's kind of not here. She's super-busy.
CLIENT: So it's kind of convenient for both of us in a way. Like, she's not in a rush to introduce me to her family or whatever. I mean she talks about it, but, you know... So I'm like, well, maybe this is the time when I need to since (ph) I'm taking better care of myself...
CLIENT: If I really feel like this is going to be something (ph)... I don't want to resent someone I'm with or...
CLIENT: So it's like I wouldn't even have to say anything. Like it's just a trick (ph) do you know what I mean? [0:10:09]
CLIENT: Go and visit my family, whatever; I'm going to stay out there for, you know, whatever.
CLIENT: While things are still not you know, I'm not engaged. I'm not living with anybody. I'm not, you know...
CLIENT: Makes sense, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Owwhh (ph).
CLIENT: Probably. I mean I think that's where the yearning well, there's definitely some yearning. Something is going on.
CLIENT: This nervous energy or whatever.
CLIENT: Maybe that's what it is, you know? Maybe like yeah, I go out and I meet chicks, whatever, but it's not there's a part of it that's uncapped (ph), but how do you know? How do you know that it wouldn't be great to here comes a cool Assyrian chick you can speak Assyrian to, and she gets that part of you, and -
CLIENT: Your you know, gets all of it.
CLIENT: You know? I don't know that because I haven't really... I've tried, but like I said, here, it's just impossible. New York, not really. You know, it's just a stupid thing. S.F. is the only S.F. or Assyria. And S.F. is better because it's the States. I mean at least they would get that as well, you know what I mean? And I wouldn't worry that they're trying to get a green card or whatever you do. I mean not to sound like an asshole, but that does happen. [0:11:40]
CLIENT: I mean I don't know. Like, I don't mind being at home, kind of, but things while I'm at home, I do find myself uncomfortable. And I'm good, but I'm like I'm awake; I'm not... Even when I'm exhausted, I'm just kind of yearning for something or I'm searching for... Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: So maybe that's what it is.
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe I'm not as, like, American I mean I am, but I'm not maybe. I can't decide which is which.
CLIENT: But I feel like I need to it would be nice to figure it out (chuckling).
CLIENT: I mean I'm lucky I don't have kids. You know, those are practical things, but they're important things that makes us...
CLIENT: And also because I know that my family over there, even when it's my dad's side, you know what I mean...
CLIENT: And I've always... Over there, I'm the oldest. [0:13:05]
CLIENT: I'm the youngest first cousin.
CLIENT: But the oldest second cousin, do you know what I mean, to their kids, you know?
CLIENT: So like they would totally like I'm not saying they would hook me up, but that's a lot of young people who are in my family, do you know what I mean? In their twenties and whatever.
CLIENT: Who are genuinely, like, on my side and can [more like] (ph) hook me up with chicks or they want to I don't know. They're just very in a good way, you know, without making me feel uncomfortable or bad or whatever, you know.
CLIENT: My dad's side.
CLIENT: His two sisters.
CLIENT: And my one aunt's children. One, two...
CLIENT: Well, his one sister never married. My sister my aunt kind of became like their mom when their mom died.
CLIENT: She's like 80 or something; she's old.
CLIENT: So she became like this mom figure, so she doesn't have any kids or anything. Her sister, my other aunt, is the one I've seen. She still gets her hair done and smokes and drinks coffee, and she's all like, you know... She's a tough cookie. I mean she's not someone I could spend a lot of time with, but she's awesome. She's one of these people who's like she can kind of be a little not gruff, but a little much. She has a very strong personality, but she's just so fucking cool. I mean are you like kidding me? You're like 85 and you're like getting your hair did and fucking smoking those little thin cigarettes and making jokes, and being kind of like a tough broad. Like that's... And then so her kids, my first cousins, are there. Then my aunts. This jackass doesn't talk to me anymore; my other first cousin; that's my dad's brother's kid.
CLIENT: They moved to S.F., but, you know, just my uncle and my aunt died, who were pretty old. So their daughter is still there to we talk to. She's the one with MS. She's like an amazing, amazing woman.
CLIENT: So yeah, and then her son, my second cousin, you know, so he's 18, 19, something like that. And my one cousin has four daughters. My other cousin has three kids. Like, you know, they're a big brood of people.
CLIENT: That's... And they're just the exact opposite of this cluster fuck. When they get together, it's just fucking laughing and playing backgammon and just joking around, and it's just really fun. So yeah, I think I need to... And I just I've never taken advantage of that, really, you know. I've never just spent time with them, you know, so even though they keep saying over and over and over, you know...
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I think that maybe that's part of what it is. I just miss that, you know. [0:17:04]
CLIENT: And through them, maybe that's my Assyrian side. But not just with them, but some of my friends who... But yeah, that is kind of nice.
CLIENT: Like yeah, I know that these guys are immigrants, but they are also they've been here a long time, you know.
CLIENT: There's something about their wives and stuff, and they just get each other and...
CLIENT: And we can go back and forth between English and Assyrian.
CLIENT: And, I don't know, man, that's pretty it's cool, you know? I don't know. I know what you're saying. Like the grass is always greener, so I don't mean it that way. I just mean you don't know until you explore it. Like I haven't had one Assyrian girlfriend, other than that one years you know, when I was all fucked up.
CLIENT: So I don't even know what it's like. I'd like to just know. Like yeah, right now, I have an Assyrian girlfriend; let's see what this is like, you know? If it sucks, then... I mean that would suck in the sense that I'd be giving other things up, you know what I mean? That's the fear is that if I broke up with someone like Kelly or whatever, then that's that. Then I'm back to square one. It could be bad. Thank you for that fuck. I mean now I'm totally screwed and I really should have just... You know what I mean? [0:18:17]
CLIENT: But what do you do? You know, if you're feeling that yearning, I don't know what you're supposed to do. That's why I feel like the best thing is it's a little gray area, but the best thing is to not rush into anything, over-rush into anything. Yeah, we're boyfriend and girlfriend, but at least we're not together every single day. We're not... It's like -
CLIENT: Yeah. It's kind of a technicality I know, but it doesn't mean it gives you the right to whatever. But it just is what it is.
CLIENT: So that way I feel like all right, well, it would suck, but there's this area, this zone right now, where I could I won't feel so bad. [0:19:02]
CLIENT: Umm...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Some of it is just this is what happens. People date, they might even date kind of seriously. But things do happen, and if they're not completely if they haven't taken it to that whatever next level, then it's not it's not a great thing to... You know, it's sad, but you've got to follow through on whatever your gut is telling you, you know?
CLIENT: That's the whole other thing, yeah.
CLIENT: Try to figure it out, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's such a oh, no, I have this girlfriend now or whatever. Like I'm committed to this one whatever thing it might be. You know, it's like before I used to be like that, and I just can't anymore. You know, I think, because people every one is you know, if I'm not doing it, the other person is doing it. [0:20:25]
CLIENT: If she cancelled tonight, right? That's not a bad thing; she did what she had to do, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: She's like "Look, you know, I've got a kid, I've got to teach in the morning," and...
CLIENT: Like so I'm glad I'm being more like that.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's not a bad thing. I used to feel bad about shit like that, but fuck it, you know? I remember being, when I was with Julia (sp?). I got like kind of like defensive and react-shish (ph). She told me about this girlfriend of hers who was dating this guy very seriously. Then one night they went out and she just met some other dude. [0:21:01]
CLIENT: And now she has three kids with that guy.
CLIENT: And I remember I got kind of like really like it yeah, but I said, well, what the fuck? Then what does any of it mean then, like?
CLIENT: I mean obviously there was something that that she has three children with this guy, and now they're married and have a happy life. And yeah, at the moment that other thing was sad, but isn't it better that she found the right person? And it's better that the dude she was with was it sucked, but at least she didn't just stay in it and drag it on and then divorce him when they were 50 or... But I felt like very kind of...
CLIENT: You know, it's that whole not knowing, and things can just change on you like that.
CLIENT: So how can you trust anybody really? Like how I mean yeah, you say you trust them, but... Because yeah, that shit happens all the time, so what does any of this mean? [0:22:03]
CLIENT: It honestly hasn't.
CLIENT: No, it honestly hasn't. I mean my mind does go there a little bit, but only in the way that any guy's or girl's mind would a little bit. No, I think it's just I don't know. To me, it just feels like a very healthy yeah, I kind of don't want to see any girl, I don't want to date any girl, more than like two times a week right now.
CLIENT: Unless I'm so like I want to marry this chick, you know? I just don't feel like it. Even three days is okay. I'm busy. Like I feel really busy, and I feel like if I want to socialize I can see my friends and have beers and burgers.
CLIENT: And just be completely relaxed and be myself and not feel any there's no expectation, there's no... I can just go home and sleep and just live my life, you know? [0:23:07]
CLIENT: So I mean I don't think it's that.
CLIENT: Is it that on a deeper level that... I don't think so. And I think they'd be honest if I -
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, I put on the brakes, okay? I think what happened was I was like, oh, I'm doing it again, I'm doing it again, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I used the L word first with her. Yeah, I mean I waited months, but still, I was the first one, and she doesn't say it.
CLIENT: You know, we had that little thing the other week, which was like yeah. She said, "I don't know. She said, "I'm worried that that's..." It's like I'm just not good with that. I'm not good with having emotive conversations or whatever or to the... She's like to the extent that you are. She's just (ph) very open. She'll say things that are very heartfelt and like heart-on-your-sleevish, like. Actually I love that, but I'm not so much like that, so I'm worried that you're going to feel like it's not reciprocated, you know? [0:24:20]
CLIENT: Which that's very honest. I mean I love that. That I was I was like wow, was that a cool person. That's more than most used to explain, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I felt that that's heartfelt, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's heartfelt, you know what I mean? That shows that you care, that you're being thoughtful, and you're being a... [0:24:35]
CLIENT: So it's not really... I think it's more just... I think it's just a how I feel. Like I just put the brakes on more (ph), because I figure, you know what? It is all great, but it is all so...
CLIENT: I'm just saying I don't know. I'm just saying I don't know. I'm just saying it's good for what it is right now and I enjoy it, but... Yeah, I'm not ready for it to get, like, more serious than it is right now.
CLIENT: And I don't think she is either.
CLIENT: I think somewhat we do say these things, but like she's met my friends. She's been to shows. She wants me to meet this person. Yeah, people do that; that's fine. And I know she wants to protect her kid or whatever, or introduce me to her kid, whatever it is. But I can tell we're both I might be more open with things I say. [0:25:27]
CLIENT: But I think we are both kind of like we're happy with the way it is. I mean, well, she's even said that, I mean at some point earlier in the relationship. She's like "I just feel like what we have is working. Let's just, you know..." And I didn't even take that the wrong way. I was like yeah, it is working. We have a great time, and we're both really busy, and we're both very... I think what it is, we're both she's prioritizing, too. Her work is very important to her.
CLIENT: And her child is her absolute and that's the way it should be, you know? And if I'm going to play somewhere (ph), I'm not like that anymore, where the girl is the...
CLIENT: You know well, she don't mind. So I'm realizing like... You know what I mean? So I just feel like it's really... Unless I'm really, really in love with someone and I want to, over time, like wow, yeah, I want to see this person more and I want to marry them or I want to live with... Then I don't feel a need to push it more than it just is. 0:26:26
CLIENT: But I don't feel bad about it.
CLIENT: Well, that's -
CLIENT: Well, see, that's the thing. For me, that's why it's complicated. For other people, this wouldn't be that complicated. Because if I was just American -
CLIENT: I mean I am American. But American in the sense where whatever my cultural background my heritage is just whatever, like everybody else, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That would be different. Then I could say, well like this wouldn't even be happening. I mean the thought would be, all right, well, Kelly is we do get each other. My God, it's like culturally, every way, that would be like who else would I look for, in a way? Unless I'm going to be petty and get to things like, well, her the way she looks, you know what I mean? [0:27:17]
CLIENT: That culturally, you know, I would be like, well, that's going to be weird, like my family and her family. Like how's that going to work?
CLIENT: You know, wars with my mom because she has a son. Like these cultural things that are just because of this other inherent background of mine. So you know what I mean? So the yearning is just that I it would be nice for a little while to know what would that be like if I did have a real girlfriend who spoke Assyrian but was also very American.
CLIENT: What would that be like, you know, if...
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying, right, right. If I tried it and I was like yeah, you know what? It is now it's... You know, that would be just a sad realization, which I am worried about anyway; that if I'm with an Assyrian chick, I'm going to give up one thing, and if I'm with Kelly or whoever, I'm giving up something else. [0:28:14]
CLIENT: That's a sad place to be. I'm worried that that's where I'm going to end up. But that's a very sad place to be for me, because then I'd feel like I'm not 100 percent satisfied. You know, that's so I'd be committed to someone completely. I don't know.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right, right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe deep down it's the fear of that ultimate commitment, you know?
CLIENT: Um-hmm. Feeling claustrophobic, yeah.
CLIENT: It does happen, yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: It was big.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Hmm. Yeah, probably, yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know. It's tiring. Because like you said, there are just so many factors all at once. I don't... I think that's why I've gotten better at having a little not like a fuck-it attitude, but I think it is a little healthy. I'm just kind of like not letting it take over.
CLIENT: You know, whatever. I'm dating this girl. Even if she does introduce me to her son, what the fuck? I mean it's not it's like I'm a sleazebag. Like these things happen. If it works, it works. If it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out. [0:31:13]
CLIENT: I do want to be careful not to just run away from something. But I think I am being that's why I'm being very, like I don't have a talk with her about anything. I don't need to... Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Let's just it's twice a week, whatever the fuck it is; it's fine, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I think it's much more like something I never used to do before, which is a much more adult and savvy approach to this.
CLIENT: I would just kind of like doop-doop (ph) just this girl. Yep, I love you, and that's that, and it's like, you know, it's not the way people date. Like that's really not how these things work. I mean if they're really, really, really in love, then yeah, that's a different story. But most situations like this aren't exactly like this. People are feeling each other out. Yeah, they might even meet their families or whatever, but doesn't mean you have to feel like you've already signed some kind of contract and like you're just dwelling on it all the time and, you know... Does that make sense? [0:32:20]
CLIENT: You know, people date all the time. They fucking meet each other's families. They have dinners with each other. For me, that's the other thing. Because I don't do that, these things become a big deal. You know what I mean? Other people date after like a month. They introduce them: "Hey, it's my mom." Like do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: You know, I don't do that.
CLIENT: So that's always loaded. That's a loaded thing for me. So even then, I'm like phewf (ph), you know? So what happens is I reverse that. Oh, then I met her mom, like.
CLIENT: Who the fuck cares? I mean yeah, okay, that is a big deal, but come on.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean? Like because for me it's loaded, I assume it's loaded all around, you know?
CLIENT: And yeah, it is a little bit. Yeah, she hasn't introduced any guy since she got that's a big deal.
CLIENT: But it's also not the end of the fucking world if it goes one way or the other, you know? And I don't have to feel shitty or constantly be thinking "Am I doing the right thing? What am I doing?" I don't know, does that make sense?
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: In the past, yeah, very. Now there's still a little bit there. I'm worried like it might be ethical or... But luckily I'm getting much I'm just having these (inaudible at 0:33:37) take a breath (ph) on me, too. Who the fuck cares?
CLIENT: I'm a good guy about to you know, I'm just trying to figure things out for my life, you know, so...
CLIENT: Whereas in the past, that wouldn't even cross my mind.
CLIENT: That I need to look out for what I want and what... Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: But now that I'm looking out for what I want, it does make me feel kind of bad (chuckling), because I'm not used to it and I feel like, you know...
CLIENT: Well, it's [really to say] (ph) it's my mom. It's...
CLIENT: You know, I feel like I have to appease others.
CLIENT: You know, I have to put others first. I have to, you know...
CLIENT: Because either they're better than me or they or if you're invisible and you're getting some attention, like "Oh, I have to cuddle," you know, whatever they want, or you know, how dare I think of myself, and maybe I don't want this. But if that's going to hurt this person's feelings and they're going to hate me and they're you know, whatever.
CLIENT: Or that if I look out for myself, then, like I was saying, that means I might have to give up certain things.
CLIENT: And if you've always kind of hated yourself it's... What if I don't find someone like Kelly again?
CLIENT: If I decide you know what I mean? Clearly, we know now that that's nonsense; I mean one after the other after the other. I've had amazing girlfriends.
CLIENT: So that still is there, but now it's way in the background, like it's just white noise. I guess like yeah, whatever, yeah, this... Yeah, it's like now I have more realistic, healthy...
CLIENT: Sure, it would suck if I had to make some kind of decision and not be with Car... I really, really care about her deeply. [0:36:01]
CLIENT: But I care more about what I need in my life (chuckling) that have a fulfilled or as close as I can get to a, you know... So I can't just do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's always that fear that, oh, if I don't have Samantha, then I'm never, ever going to find someone like... Or this one or that one.
CLIENT: Fucking nonsense, you know? So now that I don't feel that hardly at all, it's just like whoa. It's like wow, there's a world out there.
CLIENT: Umm...
CLIENT: Yeah, being alone, abandoned, getting older. No one's going to give a shit about me because I'm getting older or... I'm not saying those things still aren't there, but like I said, they're much more I mean they're on a very low frequency, you know? [0:37:03]
CLIENT: Umm, to the point where I think they're where they would be for a lot of other people who are healthier about these things, you know.
CLIENT: So again, no shit, no one likes to be alone. No shit, no one likes to break up with their boyfriend or girlfriend or whatever. But it's all again, it's more important to look out for yourself and do the right thing for you.
CLIENT: Which is also fair to the other person.
CLIENT: You know, so... So my attitude has been, in the past, I feel like I've rushed and been rash about things.
CLIENT: I still don't do that. There's no reason to do that, you know, so... And that's one of the things about Samantha that I do not that I regret, but I do think about. Like, you know, back then, if I just chilled and been like this, yeah, we would probably have dated waaaay (ph) longer.
CLIENT: You know? Umm, I totally freaked her out. Someone like her just couldn't she was completely you know, it was a bad combination of aloof and someone going through a really difficult time and being super-emotional and, like, too much like hard on sleep. [0:38:20]
CLIENT: Say I'm with Michelle. So when I think back, taking taxis all the way for Michelle, you know, when I first met her, and being all like, you know, heart-racing mode, but that's nice. But I know enough now to know that that's it's infatuation, slash, just attraction. I mean that's the stuff that happens when you first hook up with somebody. But you know, I just know enough not to... No, I don't think so. I'm broke, so why am I spending $40 to take a cab from here to... What am I doing?
CLIENT: It's just the same thing that's with all of them, not just with... Same thing with that stupid college, right? This all started a while ago.
CLIENT: It's like you know what? I don't have to do this. What am I doing? I don't have to be here. Like that's been an amazingly empowering feeling, amazing, and that is how I know in some ways I'm already beyond a lot of people my age on that front. I just that's very liberating to just stop and like you know what? No one's putting a gun to my... I don't need to be here, or I don't need to be in with this person, or I don't need to see these friends all the time and to feel like... Do you know what I mean? What am I doing? I don't know, for me, that was that's been an amazing life-changer. You know, I just stopped and am doing what it Well, (inaudible at 0:40:11). [0:40:12]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. And like, "Oh, I'm sorry. Did I've hurt the woman who hired me?" She's a little bit upset. La-de-da, I don't fucking care.
CLIENT: In the past, I would have taken the job; it would have been a nightmare. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like just...
CLIENT: Yeah, nonstop. Not just relationships, but into everything, you know; friendships, relationships, jobs, whatever. You know, it's... Come on. It was my goal: Thank you for this, thank you for that, thank you... And I was like until the guy fucking told me to stop saying thank you, you know? [0:41:01]
CLIENT: I think it's what I mean I'm also hung over, but I think it's also why I've been getting slightly more headaches lately. [0:42:05]
CLIENT: The tension headaches. I think it's like a burst of energy and like a release of energy and like you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Today?
CLIENT: Oh, really? No. It was -
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just well the band tension actually (ph). No. I was almost going yesterday.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Yawning). I've got a lot to do.
CLIENT: I think that's also what I mean, too. They've got things that are being released, so it's like a physical yeah, care (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: No, you're right, you're right. No.
CLIENT: Yes. I'll have to remember next time to tell you about the dream I had last night, weird dream where I was a photographer.
CLIENT: Who kept almost getting fired.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I wasn't able to take good photographs or develop I was having trouble developing those.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: [How can we do that?] (ph) (Chuckling).
CLIENT: Cool. Thank you.
CLIENT: Have a good weekend.
CLIENT: I parked a little far away. I'm a little sick so I didn't walk very quickly. I'm much better but I got really sick Friday, something like a kind of dry cough or something.
CLIENT: Yes, my mom, everybody has been sick. It's unfucking believable. I tried to resist it as long as I could but it's just going around. I mean luckily I'm the way I felt Friday I said oh I'm fucked. I just felt really shitty but I kind of bounced back quickly so I'm kind of walking it off. But, yes. It definitely did, I mean I think when people get especially when the weather's warm and you have a cold or allergies, you get a little down, do you know what I mean? So I didn't like that. I mean I kind of -
CLIENT: Yes, well I guess so, yes, yes. I think it was because I was I've been going so full steam ahead, which is great but I've been kind of also ignoring or putting on the back burner certain things or just the fact that I'm just kind of pushing myself really hard. So I don't know. So that stuff kind of came up, since I had to slow down and just kind of do nothing. The Kelly thing's kind of depressing me now a little bit.
CLIENT: Yes, kind of. Yes, yes. I've never had a relationship like that where I'm not, it's she's not acting weird but we don't see each other often and somehow it's not yes. I'm not sure what to make of it kind of. Maybe that's really a healthy thing. Maybe I'm not recognizing it because it's really healthy. But, I don't know.
CLIENT: Yes, right.
CLIENT: Yes. Well I also didn't note that conversation where it's just yes, she said I don't know. I think it's always going to be an issue because I just don't like to talk about emotions or I'm not very forthcoming or whatever. I said well that's I don't know, man. I just don't know. Yes, I think I'm just tired from not knowing. I don't know what to do, I'm not sure what [00:06:03]
CLIENT: No, not so much that. It's just that there's no kind of spontaneity. There can't be okay let's just. It's not like what was it yesterday? It was a nice day right? Yes. Let's just grab, I'll meet you at work for lunch and let's have a nice coffee and walk around a little bit. I don't know, those things are kind of important. I don't want to make that into an excuse but I'm seeing all of these little things are I don't know.
CLIENT: Right. Or of anyone right now unless it's I don't know. I don't know. But it's also that voice saying yes, but if you don't want more of her now it could just be another thing that you're brushing away, thinking that somehow something's different and you know what I mean? I don't fucking know, it's just tiring.
CLIENT: What? I don't follow.
CLIENT: Oh, you mean it's that pattern that's the part and not the person?
CLIENT: Yes, yes, yes. Well that's what I'm saying. That's what's tiring. I'm getting that that's the case. So that's exhausting. Which then but then that's like well but then that can also be liberating in a way. Maybe I need to accept that I just want to date around. But that scares me because what the fuck? I'm not 22. I mean, yes, I mean I do okay dating but one day I'm going to be older obviously. But I don't know. I just don't know. [00:14:08]
CLIENT: Passing by their oh it wasn't at their house. I don't know who's house that was but going by the house, I saw her in the house talking to some people that I didn't know. [00:16:20]
CLIENT: I mean I think it's I don't know. I mean I think I've been thinking a lot about that stuff obviously so I think that's one. It's all projecting in a way. I mean the stuff I was telling my uncle is really stuff that's about me as well as about him. I don't know.
CLIENT: Not really.
CLIENT: That was where I said oh, I should say bye I did say bye to her as I was leaving.
CLIENT: Yes, it was kind of yes, yes. The one thing about the kisses, I think I used to do that for her. Yes. I think -
CLIENT: Yes. I think so. Or something. It struck a chord.
CLIENT: It seems familiar, yes. I think I used to do that when I was little.
CLIENT: Yes, kind of, yes.
CLIENT: Yes. I think there was also a part where I could overhear them talking, like when I was little but I wasn't in the room or I wasn't I don't know, something like that. (Pause)
CLIENT: Yes, yes, there's probably a lot going on there, definitely. Yes, because I do find myself I have moments where I'll become really sad because Cecelia's going to die someday, which I think all that, I guess pet owners feel that but I think it's got to be related somehow. Even here, for the first time, I mean it's passed my mind before but I let it go. But lately I felt kind of panic almost. I said wow, something could happen and God forbid. I don't know, I just had this bad or even if not, the fact that one day everything ends. So that freaked me out and I think that's all connected.
CLIENT: Right, right. Yes. I don't know. I mean maybe there's a tactic I should try that I've never tried before. Somehow trying to express some of this to Kelly, I don't know if that's possible though. I think it would only, I mean if I was dating someone and they started to I don't know maybe that doesn't work.
CLIENT: Yes, just like another sometimes I'm just, I'm getting into {inaudible at 00:23:38] into zone where I'm working shit out and there might be some weeks where I feel more available than other weeks, you know, like there might be some weeks where I just feel like I need to be a be alone, just be more reclusive. But I just feel like that I don't know. It's the truth but I don't know do you want to hear that when you're dating somebody? It does sound, no matter what it sounds a little bit like a rejection. [00:24:28]
CLIENT: Not really. I mean there are times but because I'm already feeling high anxiety so that anything's going to feel especially something like this. But no, in general no. No. I mean what I do feel most is I do feel like that kind of outer body, I'm very aware of the process that's happening so that feels kind of strange sometimes but not claustrophobic.
CLIENT: What's that?
CLIENT: What's too important?
CLIENT: Worried that it's too important? No. Why worry about that?
CLIENT: Really? Did I say that?
CLIENT: Right. What kind of work?
CLIENT: Oh, oh, oh, yes, yes.
CLIENT: Stuckness yes. Yes I mean in a way relationships are the last place, territory, where I'm so stuck. I mean everything else is kind of moving, kind of, there's some movement. But I don't know. [00:32:12]
CLIENT: That's what I mean.
CLIENT: Pull me away and also just cause different tensions and unnecessary static kind of. I mean it sounds kind of harsh but maybe it should be more like shore leave. If I just want to hook up with a chick I hook but that's a very clear different objective. There is no planning and did she say she loves me or I said I love her, are we monogamist or are we a whole relationship thing because if I don't know what I want yet, fuck*k, I don't fuck*king know. I just don't know. So a lot of it has to do with the fear of like you said just time passing because well yes, but that's how can I know when, you know what I mean? I mean this could go on five year, okay now I know the kind of person I want to be with. Well, okay but now I have to it's a different, I'm different, I'm older and I don't know. That's why I'm saying maybe it is a good thing to maybe talk to Kelly about because even her reaction might tell me if it's, if this you know what I mean? I don't know. [00:34:19]
CLIENT: Wait, what?
CLIENT: Yes, if I just want to look. You know, this thing's taken a lot out of me. It's great but it's a lot.
CLIENT: Yes. I'm just so fuck*king tired.
CLIENT: Yes, I just feel tired of there's just the actual thing of being sick when it's nice out and cold medicine and all that shit. But yes, I'm just tired of this, I'm broke, it's just stuff. And it's funny because it's good that I'm not, I don't get the way I used to get about it because I know that it's okay, these things happen to a lot of people. Overall things are good. But in that moment it can be pretty tiring when it's all, everything all at the same time. [00:38:13]
CLIENT: Probably why I've been sleeping a lot more. And I've also been sick and the medicine makes you sleep more but I think my body is just decompressed when it gets into sleep. It's just like oh my God, just need to just check out for a little while.
CLIENT: It's been feeling healthy I got to say. Yes, I wake up feeling like it just feels really good to be sleeping.
CLIENT: Oh, man. That smells good.
CLIENT: What?
CLIENT: I'm over-thinking their motives, my motives, how do they feel, how do I -
CLIENT: Who? Kelly?
CLIENT: Well just, I'm just kind of I'm over-thinking something that doesn't need any she's not doing anything that's making me say oh this chick wants to see me all the time or I can't get away or she's being weird or I don't know. I clearly have some issues I'm working on. But I guess what I'm saying is I'm being sensitive about how much that's going to impact that, do you know what I mean kind of, because I don't know if that makes sense. It's also good because it reminded me that this shouldn't get more serious than it is right now. That's another big I think I shouldn't let it escalate. This should stay like this until it's very, very sure, you know what I mean, because if it escalates then we're talking about a kid and her brother and I mean that's a little more it's still not the end of the world but I would just prefer not to I don't know.
CLIENT: Right, exactly. And she's not my wife, she's not my, yes, yes -
CLIENT: Yes, it was almost like a moment like wait I'm still in charge of my -
CLIENT: of myself and my decisions and what I want and what I don't there's no so if she's going to come over this whole thing about yes, I kind of don't feel like seeing her. It's no, I kind of don't feel like something that's not happened yet, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: The problem with that too is it's a fucking bastard because over time of course those are things I am going to see. I am seeing, I mean that's the thing. I literally think yes, my hair's thinned out a little more than usual, I don't know, and I can't pretend that it's not but I'm getting better at just, just being better about it as [inaudible at 00:06:55].
CLIENT: Sure. Well I guess, but I guess the thing is I'm realizing I'm not sure I want in the way it works out for now. It is odd, I mean that is a red flag a little bit to be well I've trouble being like yesterday, it's important. Yesterday I sent a text to her. She said how are you feeling, are you feeling better or whatever. And I kind of, in the text I kind of just spelled it out a little bit. I said yes, I said something like, you know, sometimes I sit down and kind of either say out loud or I write down all the things I'm doing right now. And I said it's kind of insane, it's just and I said work and day job, you know, whatever. And she wrote I understand. And it didn't because it's her, she's not a Samantha, she's not a Michelle, it didn't bother me but that's, that's her. She'll just say yes, yes, and she's being genuine. But there's no, aw, you'll be okay or I don't know, what can I do to help. She's very just kind of tempered that way. So that's I don't know if it's a red flag but it is something, I do feel like it's -
CLIENT: Yes, yes, oh yes, I mean it went on to just like we always are. We were texting about things and flirting and all this stuff.
CLIENT: Right, right. Yes. Yes. (Pause) I don't know. I think all this stuff is still about, I think it means I'm still not completely comfortable with myself or my sense of self. It's a bazillion times better but I think if it was really even more, which it will be, but for now I think that still makes me kind of think, latch on too much to other people and me, you know what I mean, my relations, interpersonal shit, instead of being like I just don't care, I don't [00:13:30]
CLIENT: Well, when I say I don't care it just means to be like this is what I want and then, so I don't mean I don't care. I just mean that once I know what I want, then it's not that I don't care this is what I want so I don't want to do this or that or whatever or I want this instead of that. So and I'm kind of there, I'm tasting that a little bit, but I'm not quite there. I'm still kind of -
CLIENT: I mean I want to have the option. And I'm really good with kids. If you see me with Cecelia it's ridiculous. I'm very loving and very just so I want to be able to with the person I'm with. If we don't it should be because we've both, so you know what I mean? It shouldn't be because I ended up with someone that refuses or can't or feels like she's beyond whatever, you know. I don't like that.
CLIENT: No, I'm mean no. I mean I get the sense that she can't even talk, you know what I mean? I get the sense of because how do you talk, I mean, talk about something like that casually? She's going to get the sub-text of what's going on.
CLIENT: Well yes. But I guess just because of the other stuff I feel like oh fuck it. Like that's why even talk about it if she can't even say the L word? I mean -
CLIENT: Yes, I guess I could, yes. Or getting married again or whatever, yes, yes.
CLIENT: No I agree, though. If she was smart she would say well I'm not sure, maybe. I mean she does say that she loves she's such a good mom that I think there is something about her that likes that so. But still, that would have to happen kind of -
CLIENT: You know what I mean? I mean yes, people have kids into their 40s but -
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Yes, yes, yes, because I'm almost suspect of choices I make, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Yes, yes, so I feel like it's my form of revenge. All the shit feelings I've had and my family and this and that, and that's I just have to be wary of that, leery and wary of that.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean yes and no, that's the thing. I mean I also know what I like. I mean I'm attracted to whatever [inaudible at 00:27:59], I can't change that. But yes, I'm saying I'm a little bit on the one hand it is a really great feeling. I mean I think of it the way my dad used to feel. Some of it's positive. That's why my dad liked to go out with my mom and he liked to watch her put on her lipstick. It's romantic, it's like yes this is the girl on my arm. I mean it's fucking awesome. But then yes, there's this other side where I feel like I also have to be careful that I, because I do have a track record Meredith, Michelle, some of these real stunning, fucking beautiful girls so and part of that was just because they were beautiful, suppose that. So, I don't feel that with Kelly [00:28:46]
CLIENT: Ah yes, they had lots of issues, yes.
CLIENT: And that's the one good thing about Kelly is I do it is a whole person.
CLIENT: She's not super thin, she's not I just really like her.
CLIENT: Very, very, very. And very sweet and thoughtful and so that means I'm definitely doing a better job of attraction and just liking who a person is.
CLIENT: Oh yes, yes. Those people, Michelle, her, Meredith, those three were very there was something schizo about their behavior and then what they'd say and then what day to day it was very -
CLIENT: Yes, they'd get defensive and -
CLIENT: She went and met the girl.
CLIENT: She texted the girl back on my phone and went to meet her.
CLIENT: Yes, sorry, that's nuts. I would understand it actually a little bit more if we had a very passionate relationship, were it lots of sex, just more warm-blooded you know what I mean? Well it's consistent. But I was like what the f**k? In the mornings you don't really want to, sometimes you don't want to talk that much because you're I said it doesn't make sense then to do that. That's so. But yes, but what I'm saying is but instead of her being self-aware that that's nuts, I had to be the one that [00:34:46]
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. So it was all about me feeling shittier and shittier and shittier and apologizing.
CLIENT: That's true.
CLIENT: Instead one or the other. [00:38:20]
CLIENT: But I guess -
CLIENT: The thing is I did do that. I might have said all three of those chicks, Samantha, I talked to them. That's the thing I was really, I mean I was buying Meredith books on eating disorders. I was all three of them I'd say yes you can talk to me about anything. I was. I was way more than most dudes -
CLIENT: Well, but also [inaudible at 00:39:36] but saying that this is I mean I tried to break up with Samantha three times. But I think, yes I kind of know what you're saying, but I think the difference is that I didn't, I wasn't you're right, I didn't use those words, like this isn't working for me. I was more trying to help them. But that's different than coming from a place of power and confidence and being like look. Yes. [00:40:06]
CLIENT: Yes, and that's one thing I was saying with Kelly. I feel like I can't talk, I mean that's such a different place. Not about what I want but -
CLIENT: but I could just put things on the table. Look, this is what's going on with me, so.
CLIENT: They are, big time.
CLIENT: Same time? Nice. Thanks. Have a good one.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was like, "Well, yeah." In the dream I wasn't trying to be like a Michael Jackson. I was like, "I'm realistic." I kept trying to let her know that no, it's not just a hobby. I'm still going to be doing that seriously and, yeah, she wasn't getting it. It was interesting. It was a weird fucking dream.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was the same dream, kind of, like intermingled.
CLIENT: Morphed. Yeah. (pause) My dad's side thing made sense because I've been thinking a lot about that and then maybe going out there or whatever. I mean it all makes sense, I guess, that all this stuff my aunt is telling me is stuff I've heard forever. And she's a failed singer, so that kind of . . . [00:04:07]
CLIENT: (pause) I'm sorry. What were you going to say?
CLIENT: Oh, no. I didn't think about that. Yeah, because the island was awesome, whatever it was. It was beautiful or at least that bird's-eye view of it was beautiful. I seemed happy. When I woke up I didn't recognize who those people were, but in my dream I just assumed they were my aunts or uncles or I don't know what I thought. [00:05:02] But the weird thing was even with my aunt's thing it wasn't awful. It was much more . . . like in the past I would have been losing my temper, but I was just very calmly telling her over and over and just explaining, you know? And, maybe more importantly, she wasn't being mean. She was kind of being loving about it. She wasn't being like, "See. We told you." She was like, "Well, you know. See, the music is not as important. You need to do what you need to do to make money and . . ." Although she did say something like, "So you didn't make it," or something like that. She would say something like that. I don't know. But yeah, somehow I didn't take it to be as mean or vicious as I don't know . . . at least in the dream I didn't. [00:06:11]
CLIENT: Exactly. It was somehow almost as if she's saying, "You've got to look out for yourself and you can't live in a fantasy," or something like that. Which is still not great, but it's better than . .
CLIENT: No. I didn't get that sense. Maybe that's why it was almost as if she was saying, "I know what it's like. I didn't make it. You didn't make it." Yeah. (pause) [00:07:19]
CLIENT: It was like this split-second moment, but I don't know. I didn't know what to make of it. It was like whoa, what's going on here? It was weird. But I tried to kind of tiptoe. I was trying not to step on things. It was weird.
CLIENT: I didn't see any people. It was more like this pretty, bright kind of light blue water, a lot of sand and shit, trees. [00:08:00]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. It was a beautiful shot, but I didn't see any people or cars. It was more just geography. [00:08:12] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. Like today, part of me really wants to not see Kelly. Part of me wants to either just stay in or I was maybe going to go to a show to support some people I know without it being a date, you know? [00:09:17] Just go and have a couple of drinks and then just leave. But then I was like, "Yeah, but maybe that's exactly the opposite of what maybe I should go against that instinct of mine and be like no, I'm just going to hang out with this girl and be nice." It's too easy to want to just cancel. I'll say I'm very confused now, not just about Kelly, but what I want in a relationship. I'm totally at a loss, totally confused. On the one hand that feels really great. In a way it's like a good kind of wow, I could think of anything that I want and then just go after it. But it's also, in the meantime, I'm not sure what to do. [00:10:22] (pause)
CLIENT: Well right now the issue is Kelly. I'm in a relationship. That's the issue.
CLIENT: I feel kind of guilty. I feel guilty for feeling kind of liberated. I feel like I'm not being fair to her maybe because I'm like, "Well, if something else comes up then I'll . . . " I'm also scared that if I break it off I'm going to regret it. It's just all these things.
CLIENT: Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. But then not trusting myself. This isn't just right now, but if things end with her and then I come back full circle and am like, "No. She was amazing." It's like fear, anxiety, confusion, guilt; but also feeling good. I can't control that right now I feel pretty . . .
CLIENT: But that [ ] (inaudible at 00:16:49) Shouldn't you feel guilty? I don't know. Because wouldn't I feel bad if she was doing that right now?
CLIENT: Right, this is what I'm saying about being too sensitive. That's why yesterday I was saying I've got to stop myself and just be like, "Wait a minute. This is what happens in relationships and we're not fucking dating. We're not . . ." you know? But I can't help it. You're saying it's all good?
CLIENT: You're saying this is all very normal and I'm just beating myself up because that's what I'm used to?
CLIENT: That's true, yeah. It's almost like I'm going back to "catastrophizing" things a little bit, like taking them to extremes. That's why I was quick to say that I also feel good. I don't feel bad that I made out with Bethany, but I feel bad for not feeling bad because I'm hard on myself like you said. I feel bad for kind of not feeling bad and that's just me. I tend to be hard about stuff like that. That's a good point, though. This is definitely the first. This is totally unusual.
CLIENT: Where it's okay but it's not 0 to 60 or that it's awful.
CLIENT: Yeah. Who the fuck cares? It's crazy. It's like really putting myself in a vise. (pause) I think that's why this is heavier now, because now I see it. I'll be like, "No, I'll see her tonight." I catch myself. But that's still a lot of processing and a lot of work, do you know what I mean? [00:22:05] It's a lot of thought. I have to be kind of vigilant about . . . That's the other thing I thought. I was like, "Whatever. If she comes over and I'm not quite . . . who the fuck cares?" That's how I feel right now. I don't give a fuck. So it's definitely good, but I have to constantly monitoring and catching those things because otherwise it's too easy, for now, to slide back into, "Well, I'll just cancel it," or "I'll just avoid this or avoid that." I don't want to be that way. Like in the past I've canceled shows. I didn't have to cancel those shows. I was just scared or I was being so hard on myself. I was nervous, scared, and hard on myself. Nonsense. [00:22:54]
CLIENT: It is coming from a genuine place, like when I didn't take the job at the school. That was genuine. But yeah, once there's some kind of pattern, like you said, where it's just a reactionary, then you've got to be careful with that.
CLIENT: I guess I just assume that it's a no-brainer if you're raised the way I was raised. It's a family of people that fucking beat themselves up all day long.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. Exactly. (pause) [00:29:41] It's like being let out of prison. You're let out of prison and the light is kind of blinding you and you're like, "Shit. I can walk that way, that way." You know what I mean? Whoa, this is genius it's not genius and then that feeling of, "Prison is kind of comfortable. I'm used to that." You have a routine. You get your three square meals a day. You know what's what. You're told what to do, what not to do. This just feels like "whoa". In a way I'm my own warden. I'm just fucking cracking down all of the time. [00:30:48]
CLIENT: Yeah. You're so excited.
CLIENT: What's it all about. Yeah. Wasn't that in Shawshank Redemption? The guy gets out and then he just hangs himself after a while the old dude, the librarian guy. That's uplifting. (chuckles)
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. But now it's like I've gone from it's not even euphoric it just feels good. So now it's like I could really structure my days the way I want and I can see who I want, I can cut out people if I want. It's crazy. [00:32:11] (pause)
CLIENT: That's why the other thing is then the fear that I think a lot of people have is that every choice you make you're giving up some other choice, right? So yeah, it feels good to make the choice initially, but then if you're a kind of sensitive person or you're hard on yourself it's like, "Shit. What if then I regret that?" Then you might be unable to do anything so you never really commit one way or the other because you're constantly worried that that's the wrong way you're going. [00:33:20]
CLIENT: Right. Yep.
CLIENT: Right. That's interesting, now that I'm thinking about it, trying to take all of this stuff. (chuckling) You don't need to bring anything. (long pause) [00:35:33]
CLIENT: Right. That's almost worse, actually. That's way worse for me. Then I take that and . . .
CLIENT: In a weird way, when it does happen, I overreact like my family. Just like they get super defensive if someone makes some kind of criticism. They can criticize everything, but they get very defensive. I've caught myself like that, too, when someone genuinely seems a little bit off or just says that they're upset I get very . . . Normally I just feel like I'm five. It just goes back to being like a sad little kid. [00:38:31]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Next time. Have a good weekend.
CLIENT: Yeah, I totally overslept. I was like, "Oh, maybe I'll just stay awake at this point and, of course, I totally zonked out and fell asleep.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yesterday was a little bit better. I mean Monday night was a little bit better because I think I was just so exhausted and I slept. Like a lot of people, I think it triggered some stuff. I just feel unsettled and very restless.
CLIENT: Yeah. Scary, sad. I think for everybody it brings up different things. Also the one comment thing is this unity. You just feel so frustrated and you feel angry. It's so absurd. [00:01:05] The thing was I was exhausted, but I was feeling kind of shitty. I felt so restless. I went out to meet my friend, Dave, for a beer, which is fun, but I was tired. I probably could have stayed home, but I've been feeling so restless. We had some beers and that was nice, but I just felt kind of . . . I don't know. It didn't really help. Yesterday I almost I didn't have a panic attack but early evening I felt very . . . I mean I ate, but I probably ate at weird hours during the day or something. I had 2 1/2 coffees and then I just had beers. I had two early beers with someone I hadn't seen in a long time, a buddy of mine. Again, very nice, but maybe over stimulation, too much to process. It's been this weird . . . if I stay home I feel super restless and I want to get up. But then when I'm out I just feel a little bit . . . [00:02:26]
CLIENT: Kind of it wasn't. Very temporarily.
CLIENT: I was going to ask you about my phone. Were you able to leave a message?
CLIENT: That's okay. There's something going on with my phone. I'm not getting any messages. I saw that you called, but there's no message.
CLIENT: There's been something going on with my phone. It keeps popping up saying, "Show me your Apple ID," or what the fuck. I don't know. No, no. Don't be . . . [00:03:01]
CLIENT: I felt a little bit odd about myself, too. Maybe that brings up, other than what happened, for each person it brings up things. For me, I noticed one thing, and I don't really feel upset about it because I think that's just who I am, but I did that. I checked on people. It's not that nobody checked on me. I just beat them to it. I immediately just checked on them. [00:04:00] I did feel like, "What is that? I'm not overdoing it?" It is nice to check on . . . I just thought for a moment, "What's going on there? Am I overdoing it? Am I being too nice?"
CLIENT: Well like I was even checking on people who were just good acquaintances. I wasn't calling everybody, but just online I sent a group text like, "Okay. I hope everyone is okay." I know that it is a nice thing to do, but no one really did that for me. It seems like I just go out of my way a lot and, like I said, it doesn't bother me so much anymore because now I know that's just who I am. My dad was like that, too. Some people are like that. It doesn't make me special or anything, but it does make you feel a little bit vulnerable sometimes. I don't know if that makes sense. [00:04:58]
CLIENT: Kind of. But then I was like, "Yeah. I beat them to it. What am I supposed to do?" I checked on people so I can't keep tabs, but the fact was I had a very good feeling. It's not like people were going to be rushing to ask me if I was okay. I'm sure that's because a lot of people know me and know why I would arc to this . . . I would never . . .
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. So that was one little thing. But I think it coincided with Kelly. Like my stupid, lingering cold. I left here Friday and I started having pains in my ear. It just must be like an ear infection. I don't know. Then there was some stuff with Kelly. I kind of felt like she wasn't . . . I saw her Saturday. It was very nice, but I felt like she kind of wasn't checking in after that as much, although she was. She's not really doing anything wrong so I feel bad, but something. [00:06:03] And then like Sunday and Monday, I just felt like she wasn't that communicative or something. I don't know. I can't put my finger on it because there's nothing I can say like with other chicks I've dated that this exact thing is bothering me, but there's something.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like now she's totally sick. She didn't tell me, but then I was like, "Oh, I'm so sorry." She was like, "No. It's no big deal." I just made a joke like, "Always being the stoic," or whatever. She was just like, "No. I'm just not a fussy girl." And that is great, but I feel like there is some . . . do you know what I'm saying kind of? It's hard to explain. In person she's not like that as much, so I feel like I can't say anything. I just feel restless. I definitely feel restless. [00:06:59] I was talking to Dave last night. I was like, "Maybe it's Darien." Maybe I'm getting in that place again, in a much healthier way, where I just need to maybe get away for a month; just recharge; be in a different environment, because there's nothing particularly bad. Everything is great, but I do feel kind of . . . Whoa. I just realized I'm not wearing my glasses. That's funny.
CLIENT: I want to be able to see what's going on here.
CLIENT: I can see you, but it's hard. I'm nearsighted so I can see you but, for example, I can't see your eyes. They just look kind of dark. So there's been that and then the work thing is good, but I do feel . . . I don't know. I go back and forth. I feel these pangs. I feel like I was getting more attention or something. There's a lot of stuff, just a lot of stuff that I think has gotten a little bit aggravated from this thing. I felt sad. I cried a little bit. One very nice thing was that I posted something Monday. I can't remember exactly how I said it, but it was from my heart. I have a way with words, I guess. It got over a hundred-something likes. Fifty people shared it. So that was nice. Nice? I don't know what that means. I felt good that it touched people. [00:09:08]
CLIENT: In everyone. It opens a little Pandora's box.
CLIENT: That's right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Losing people suddenly. That poor little boy. That's what made me cry. I was like, "Are you fucking kidding me?" The mom and sister are injured badly. They're not a little injured, they're really injured. His dad is this well-loved activist. Maybe that's what it was. It was kind of like my dad, very well loved. That's just . . . man. I don't know. I think I'm going to turn our June show into a benefit, some kind of violence-something. Maybe that children's room in Hamden. Do you know that place? Maybe donate money. I don't know. Something. I'm so sick of this shit. The money is not important anyway. You might as well . . . A few hundred bucks or whatever. I'd rather just help people. [00:15:04] They do have a suspect now, though. Did you hear that?
CLIENT: Yeah. A camera and one of the local they literally have a total face. They're going to do a press conference at 5:00.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. This didn't bother me, but I could tell that that was a thing I have. In general, that's a thing. It's gotten better. I'm not like the way I used to be, but still. It has nothing to do with now, but it has to do with past things. [00:16:06] Because when I think about it rationally, maybe in that moment a bunch of people didn't . . . but come one. I have a shit-load of friends and people are great to me. But in that moment it was about something that was much older, something much older. I checked on my family. Again, I beat them to it, but there's something like . . . (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. Like would they have if I hadn't? Then with Kelly I felt like, yeah, I guess she was sick yesterday or something, Sunday or Monday. I don't know. I just felt something. [00:17:04] I know that's just how she is. She doesn't mean it. She did something again when we went out Saturday. She was a little emotive Saturday. We were at the bar and she leaned over and was like, "I really missed you," because we hadn't seen each other for like . . . Or like yesterday I was like, "You know if you need anything. I'm sorry you're not feeling . . . " That means a lot to me. I mean it's there. I just feel bad because if I bring it up, then I'd feel bad because then it does sound like I'm complaining. She's being stoic and cool and mellow and I'm wanting something. It sets up this weird . . .
CLIENT: But that's the thing is it? Am I wanting too much?
CLIENT: But then I feel like do people who have dated this long . . ? I don't like talking on the phone either. I don't want to talk on the phone. But there's something about the fact that she doesn't really like to talk. It's usually like I just don't like to talk on the phone and it becomes a little bit of a joke because the girl either likes it or doesn't think about it either way. But for her to not talk on the phone ever, that's sometimes just not being very . . . Like sometimes I just want to know that she's thinking of me or something and I feel like a douche for that because if I say it she's going to be like, "Man, of course I do." Do you know what I mean? It's going to sound unreasonable in a weird way.
CLIENT: That's the thing, because there's nothing specific I can put my finger on.
CLIENT: No. I told her about Darien. She was at work.
CLIENT: And then we went back and forth a little bit, of course. But yeah, the rest of the night she didn't check in. She didn't check in yesterday. I guess she was sick or whatever, she's a mom, she's busy. But there is something about it. I live here. I do feel like we're all affected here. That did bother me. Again, like the ear thing, she didn't really check on me much Sunday at all. I don't know. It's the little things. I told her, "If you need anything." I know if I say anything she's going to say, "Of course. That's a given. You can call me any time or if you need anything." Do you know what I mean? [00:20:07] It's weird. She's not a Samantha, so I feel like I would really kind of hurt her. I feel like I would validate to her what she already told me, which is that I have trouble kind of being more open and communicative. I'd feel bad because she's being pretty great. She did ask me to dinner. She was like, "I'd like to cook for you. Would you come over? Would you feel comfortable?" That's pretty open. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, something. Maybe it makes me a little bit, not suspicious, but I just end up feeling like . . .
CLIENT: Yeah, show me. I'm a little bit confused because you've told your son and stuff, but I still feel like there's something being held back somehow a little bit; which then, in turn, makes me feel maybe it's not the right thing. It only validates things I generally feel anyway when I'm in a relationship, like I should keep my eyes open for other people.
CLIENT: It's almost like a sinking thing; otherwise all the timing is good. But there's something that . . . I think one clue is that Saturday when she got to my house she seemed kind of frazzled. It turns out that she had had this thing with her brother and told him to move out. She was like, "He's selfish. He won't really chip in." The telling part was I don't know what it was. I hadn't really even said much yet. I think she was just venting, but the way it came out I felt like that was a clue. She was like, "You know, I'm just very busy. I have a lot going on. I'm really, really busy." [00:23:02] She wasn't really saying it at me, but there was something about that that was telling. That's what it is. She's very focused, like she's made a choice. She was like, "My job is important to me. I love my job. I've got my house. My child is a priority." That's all good stuff, but there is something. You feel it a little bit. You feel like, "Yeah, I know I'm up there, but something still feels a little bit . . ." It's not bothering me as much because now I'm just taking it as you know what, let's just slow it down. I'm in a different place so it doesn't hurt me the same way it would have in the past. I'm like, "Fuck it. Let's just take it really slow." I think eventually, though, there will have to be some kind of one way or the other. [00:24:01]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Eventually I'll just be like, "You know what? Ehh. This is great but it's not working."
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: Especially because I already know I'm the first guy. I know how much I mean to her.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I know how much I mean to her. I know she's not being flippant.
CLIENT: That's real. Obviously we're different people, but it could be that we're different enough in some regards that . . . Because the thing is it's not a competition and I don't have a child, but I've got a lot going on, too. [00:25:07] I am prioritizing my work. I'm at a place now where those are the priorities to me. I feel like I can kind of juggle and still show someone that . . . I don't know. We'll see what happens. It's not like it's at a point where it's driving me crazy or I'm dwelling on it. I think it's just an ingredient in the fact that I already feel kind of restless for whatever reason.
CLIENT: Us? No, it wasn't. I'm good. I was just like, "She has kids." I don't know. It's what people do. [00:26:03]
CLIENT: That's okay. No problem.
CLIENT: Yeah. It just drives home that you don't know what a new day is going to bring. People are around one minute and then they're not. [00:27:01]
CLIENT: It was probably good, in a way.
CLIENT: I was listening on the radio. It was good.
CLIENT: He's an eloquent speaker. You hear him talk about the little boy and all of these people and the amputees. He's talking about if you're going to run again or talking about the race, how the race next year and how it's going to be so amazing and there will be more people than ever. You can tell there was a huge crowd there. People were cheering and it sounded like he was moved, too. And I had some of the craziest, fucking dreams last night. I had the weirdest . . . what a weird week this has been. [00:00:58] I don't know what happened yesterday at practice. I went to Burger King. I shouldn't have done that, but I was like, "I don't care. I'm stressed. I'm tired. I just want some comfort food." Bad idea. We had practice. I was already feeling out of it and towards the end of practice I don't know what happened. I suddenly felt a little nauseous and I got really sweaty. I just felt weird. I went to the bar and had two whiskeys. I felt kind of better. But yeah, I didn't sleep well at all. I had a series of the worst, most stressful, weird, weird dreams; totally fucking weird.
CLIENT: Yeah. There's something going on. Something happened this week. I feel kind of restless and anxious. I suddenly don't feel . . . yeah. I feel unsettled. [00:07:04] (pause)
CLIENT: But like trying. I was all over that ship I was going up and down the floors.
CLIENT: But everything looked unfamiliar and I also couldn't backtrack. I couldn't be like, "Oh, I'll just go back the way I came." Everything just looked completely . . . (pause) [00:08:09] It's interesting. I think what might be happening is that a lot of it's very clear. It's like, of course, when something like this happens anybody that's gone through difficult times, I think, it triggers a lot of sadness and stuff like that. But I also wonder if maybe what we're doing here there are more things coming out.
CLIENT: Like now that I'm being more healthy, what do I want? I don't have to feel trapped by Kelly or this or that. What do I want to do? Maybe it's unsettling to feel that way. [00:09:02] (pause)
CLIENT: It was such a weird week. (pause) Some of it also is that I think I'm not helping anything by eating at Burger King. I feel like I have to just suck it up. I've got to buck up and have a little more regularity and some better choices about some basic things, like what I eat and when I eat. [00:11:08] That's a minor thing, but it's like all these different ingredients. That also made sense because I had been feeling this extra need lately. I've even been a little reckless. I even went on Okay Stupid and kind of checked around. Something is going on. I feel this restless desire to connect or to seek out people. I don't know what it is. (pause) [00:12:04]
CLIENT: Maybe. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, that's totally a lot of what's going on. That plus just suddenly not having my dad, suddenly losing people. There's no question about it. (pause) [00:14:02]
CLIENT: I think what's hard about why don't I eat more regular hours? Why don't I eat more regularly? I think there is a little bit of a fatalistic thing that I have. I just feel tired. I just feel like, "Yeah, whatever." I can't explain it. It's hard to articulate, but I think there is some kind of something. There's some kind of fatalistic thing that happens where I'm just like, "You know what? I want a burger," or whatever. Or "I'm going to stay up. I just want to stay up." I don't know. Whereas other people my friend yesterday. This guy is slender. He's like, "I'm running again." He and his fianc�, their dinner was a salad with lime juice on it or some shit like that. It's like that, to me, is not even English. I don't even know what he's saying there, what that fortitude is of "I'm slender, dude. I don't even have to do this shit, but I'm going to do it. No, I feel great." That doesn't even register in my mind. [00:16:04] He was like, "Yeah, lately I've been eating these sensible little meals every day. Yesterday, for example, we just had grilled vegetables for dinner." I'm like what? That, when I hear that kind of stuff it reinforces my feeling of not belonging, those little things. I don't know what's going on here. This 28-year-old kid is telling me this very adult kind of stuff. I ate ham sandwiches and potato chips. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know. I don't know if I'm articulating it.
CLIENT: Yeah, or something. Like who are these people? [00:16:59]
CLIENT: Or let's say I eat a salad with lime juice. That cannot be all I eat. I would absolutely buckle. Sunday, even before all this shit happened, when I had the ear thing and all of that, Sunday morning I was still feeling shitty and I went to the food store. I got all this healthy shit, but then I also got those little bite brownie things. They're delicious. I ate it and Monday night it was gone. [00:18:04] I don't do that all the time, but I do do it relatively often. Earlier in the day I had soup, just a BLT and soup, like something more healthy or whatever; but I can't not do you know what I mean? That's the part that I feel alienated. People's ability to have these very adult choices and stick with them because they're trying to lose two pounds or whatever the fuck they're trying to do. Maybe some of that is a lot of people. It's not like all my friends eat salad with lime juice. I have friends that drink and eat.
CLIENT: Exactly. It sounds also, like I said, maybe a little bit odd. If you're a slender dude, why do you even have to do that? [00:19:04] (pause) For example, I downloaded a household budget template. As I was filling it in I was like, "Wow. That's fucked up. I've never done this before." It took me five minutes. You just plug everything in. It does the numbers for you. It's like little things like that. I don't know what to feel about that. Should I be angry or sad? Should I be angry at myself for being lazy? I know a lot of people have issues with budgeting. It's not that feeling that I'm a freak and no one else is like me, but it's just like what the fuck? I'm a smart dude. Maybe it is just mostly sadness. It just makes me feel like, "What the fuck is going on?" [00:20:02] It really is just like waking up from a coma and being like, "What just happened? I couldn't do my budget? I couldn't take five minutes?" (chuckles) I just decide what I make per month. Even rough estimates. It's not like I sat there with receipts. I have a vague idea of what gets spent. Just have an idea. It's insanity.
CLIENT: Well, yeah. It's because I never did it, but now it's too late. It's just not in me now to do those jobs. I think at a younger age you're so malleable. You do it a little bit and then you can do it. You can always go back. It's like riding a bike, from what I hear, from people that do it. Then you get to a certain age and you're like, "I just can't take your order. Sorry." That's not in me, so I'll be bad at it, like I won't be able to do it.
CLIENT: Right. Right. They become black and white. I do look down on, like when I say about Kinko's, I always joke about it because I do have a lot of people I know who are still trying to be rock stars or whatever. They've made other choices where now all they can do is be a bartender. It's not that I look down on it, but that's a sad existence to me. What you're saying is totally right. Having that when you're younger, just the freedom to be like, "Oh shit, man. Wow, that's cool. I could work two or three days a week and make a shit load of cash." Someone like me who's great with people and can win people over . . .
CLIENT: Yeah. Stuff like that it's just a bummer that I couldn't do it. When I was at Smith I had one dishwashing job; and I quite, of course, because I felt so weird. It seemed so weird to me. There's something, I guess, like you said, if you're in some sort of weird bubble that's so disconnected (chuckles) from mainstream, from the world around you wherever you are, it felt weird. I just felt shy and awkward and strange. I couldn't do it. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: Yep. (laughs) Oh, man. Surreal.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was something.
CLIENT: I'm okay, I think. I don't know. I'm kind of not sure. I feel okay today. I don't know. I think I'm definitely kind of mildly depressed or something. I feel tired. I was just a crazy . . . I was already feeling a little off before all of this shit happened so . . . [00:01:09]
CLIENT: It was crazy. It was definitely traumatizing, there's no question.
CLIENT: This was Thursday after they killed that cop and got chased into Cheshire. I don't know. It's going to take some time. And then what was it 20 hours? I don't know. It's hard to put into words that kind of terror because at that point you're like, "Well, this guy has nothing. Obviously he knows it's over." They didn't care about dying or killing other people so it would make sense. If I was that person and that insane, then it would only make sense to just knock someone's door down, take a few more people out, and just blow yourself up. There are no words to explain, to feel like that could happen. I mean yeah, they were armed, but all that takes is a second. If he knows he's going to die anyway, just do it. It was a fucking . . . it was just . . . you know. I don't know. [00:03:22]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Just like the sounds were so loud. It was clearly . . . there was no confusing . . . I mean it was surreal. It was surreal. Suddenly it sounded like there was a war going on. The horrifying part, the first thing I thought because it sounded like so much noise, it didn't sound like two or three people, I was horrified that they'd come to Cheshire and there was some kind of group, do you know what I mean? And that there were suddenly 30 insane people waiting fully armed for I don't know what. That was horrifying. Horrifying. [00:04:13]
CLIENT: No idea. No idea.
CLIENT: No. I was wide awake. I had just walked down that way that night. It was a nice night. Since I already wasn't feeling that great that week I was like, "You know, I'm just going to take a walk." I walked right where it all went down like around 11:00. And then I got home and I was talking to my friend in Phoenix, so we were talking. I had the window kind of open and I saw all of these cops flying down the street and I thought, "That's weird." The cops were going really fast. I was like, "Yeah, this is not normal." [00:04:59] Then by the time I told Giorgio, I heard two loud noise and then I hung up.
CLIENT: Yeah, but then I was like, "What are the chances that any of this is happening? It is happening in my backyard in all of our backyards in that neighborhood so for any one of is it very well could." It's not like we don't know where they are at all, but then it's like what are the chances they're going to end up at my house? But when literally there's a major event, cluster fuck, clearly it could happen. It's here. [00:10:23]
CLIENT: Exactly. Exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah. This time with that, I didn't feel that this time. I felt good that they were around but . . . I just can't put it into words. It was surreal. It was beyond . . . or suddenly there would be a commotion at one of the houses around us where they'd be surrounding the house yelling, telling people to come out bizarre. [00:11:22] I don't know why in those houses. Usually the people that would come out are some white, old ladies. That just drives home that he could be hiding anywhere here.
CLIENT: Right. Right. And really where he ended up is . . .
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It's weird. It has only accentuated how I was already feeling, so now everything feels really weird and discombobulated. It's just strange going back to our routines. (pause) [00:13:00] I guess all in all I'm doing okay but . . . Yesterday I was like, "Wow, do I need to see Dr. Carlton again maybe? Do I have some kind of low-grade depression going on?" because even before all of this happened I wasn't feeling awful, but I just . . . I'm just so tired. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's funny, because last night Kelly came over and we just hung out at home. It was really nice, but I don't know what it is, I just . . . (pause) It's like there's a part of me that just wants to retreat and just wants to be alone. I just don't know.
CLIENT: Or will I hurt her.
CLIENT: Because right now there's something in me that feels a little bit reckless, like flirting with other girls. There's something in me that's whatever. [00:18:05] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. I just feel drained. My appetite is back, but I just feel off. (pause)
CLIENT: Probably.
CLIENT: Well I did have one of those moments Friday when they came and they said, "How are you doing?" When I locked the door, that was the one time I just completely broke down.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. No, it was good. Or I think there was another time when I was petting Cecelia or something.
CLIENT: Yeah. Throughout this whole thing I did have moments like that where I cried. There will always be more good people. I'm so proud to be from here. I don't know of any hate crimes so far or just, in general, people opening their homes or giving people rides or whatever it might be. [00:21:27] It's amazing. Even the law enforcement. As much as I don't like cops, in this case, God bless them. Unbelievable. (pause) I think the problem, though, is this just highlights and builds up the existential stuff that I feel. It's just all absurd and random. Things happen. It's overwhelming. [00:22:31] (pause)
CLIENT: No, definitely.
CLIENT: No, no, no. It's not a "life is meaningless" thing. It's more, I think, just a melancholy-ness. That's exactly it, that it's not meaningless, but that unfair and absurd, senseless things happen and they hurt people and you never know when or where or who it's going to be. [00:23:22]
CLIENT: Um-hum. And then today is the commemoration of the Assyrian genocide. That's so funny. Normally, to me it's like my dad I just think about it anyway. You don't need one day to commemorate millions of people, but there is something ironic about it happening in Cheshire. It's weird. (pause)
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. It brought up lots of things, you know? (pause) In a way it just shows that life is short. It's more like trying to beat the clock. This shit that I'm juggling and trying to get done, it's just . . .
CLIENT: Yeah, in relationships, I don't know. In don't know what to make of it. Kelly and I hung out. Sunday we went to Mystic. When I'm with her it's great, but also I don't know what to make of some of my superficial feelings, like "I wish you were skinnier." She's very pretty, but I don't know. There's that. I'm a little confused. I'm just confused. (pause) [00:27:12] It definitely feels kind of roller-coaster-y now. Do you know what I mean? Like earlier today I was feeling good, and now I feel like shit.
CLIENT: Probably coming here, there's just so much.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was walking around. It was beautiful outside. I had a nice walk with Kelly to get coffee. Now I'm sitting here and I feel that tiredness and a little bit of sick in the pit of my stomach, a little headache-y.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: And the funny thing is that I knew that that was happening even before. Like when the bombings happened, I knew that something felt triggered. It's just like what the fuck? The only two things I keep telling myself is that one: it's not just me. It happened in a whole neighborhood and number two: people died and those families . . . people are maimed. And number two: at least I have this to come to. [00:30:32] Also this is an opportunity to, instead of becoming so disassociated, that's where work can ground you. I just have to find a way to regain some energy. Right now that's what it is. I just feel like I have no energy. I just feel kind of sick. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Right, right. I've been reminding myself of that, too. That's what I was saying, I'm actually handling it better than . . .
CLIENT: Yeah, like you said, I'm just kind of waiting to feel those things instead of telling myself those things.
CLIENT: Right. I'm trying not to be so hard on myself.
CLIENT: Nothing specific. I was all over the place.
CLIENT: I don't know. I was thinking on the one hand, what sucks now is I'm full of anxiety, but what is the next thing that's going to happen? Like what's the next bad thing that's going to happen? (sighs) Today I was like, "I could try to write about this," but then, of course, I was thinking, "Yeah, well that's what I say about a lot of things and then I don't actually do anything." (pause) [00:35:10]
CLIENT: Ehh. I'm not doing it.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, not really. (pause) [00:36:20] It's a curse to be so ambitious. It must be nice to just not be as much. I have all of these things on my plate. No one put them there. I'm putting them there, but I can't help it. (pause) [00:37:17]
CLIENT: You know that comedienne, Margaret Cho? Do you know what I'm talking about? She has a think on salon.com about children and why she's ambivalent and she's pretty sure she doesn't want them. There's one really good part towards the end where she's like, "In the end, I think what it is, is that I don't want to love anything that much," and that's something that I know is in me. I don't want to. I was like, "Wow, that's such a simple way to say it." [00:42:31] I know exactly what she's talking about. There is something perversely freeing in not going there completely. I think she even says something like, " . . . not loving something that much, even myself." I was like, "Yeah, that makes perfect sense. [00:43:22]
CLIENT: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: You look nice.
CLIENT: Oh man, sorry about yesterday. I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Yeah I actually ended up hooking up with Lily. Remember Lily?
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. And it's weird because I kind of don't feel bad about it. But yeah the bad part about it was I didn't really sleep well and then I was up at 5:30 to take her home and then I didn't realize she was moving that morning.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: No. Well no, I'm assuming you have something to say. (chuckle) But no, no. No that's the funny thing. It's weird, I just don't feel bad. I feel more bad that it was just kind of a messy hook up. I feel more bad that she feels kind of bad. She was drunk and...you know. Whatever, it was fun and it was pretty hot so whatever. (chuckle) I don't know.
CLIENT: I know, I really don't! It's weird. I don't feel any regrets. (pause) I don't know if it's a telltale sign in a way that it's... (chuckle) that I really am serious now when I say that my only two priorities are my music (chuckle) and my writing and everything else is like whatever. I hope that stuff works out but I'm just living day to day. I don't know. [00:06:27]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I don't know. Like am I depressed? Am I...is it just that I feel really confused, but about what specifically I'm not sure?
CLIENT: To me though they're the same thing, I feel like.
CLIENT: That's what I'm trying to say, if I haven't been able to love myself because of being hurt or ignored or whatever discouraged, put down, you fucking name it then (pause)... yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I mean I was thinking about it. I was like, "Am I being disrespectful to women or something?" But it's not that old feeling of "Fuck women" or...
CLIENT: Yeah it's not that because again I took it the other way. I was like, "Well what if Kelly's (sp) doing this and I don't know about it?" I don't know. (pause) As long as she's being safe or whatever, for some reason I kind of don't care that much. I don't want it flaunted in my face. I don't want to find out about it or whatever but...I don't know. Something's going on. I just feel like you know what? I'm tired. Life is so fucking short (chuckle) and I just want to accomplish a couple more things (chuckle) before I'm old or whatever and I'm just like...I don't know. [00:14:10]
CLIENT: Yeah I think it's that feeling of "Why won't this girl love me?" You know what I mean? "Why won't this girl be all about me?" Because you know what? It's not all about me. Sometimes she wants to get laid or whatever or she sees some other dude that she wants to...I don't want to think about that stuff but I'm also tired of that ego, that childish part in me. It's like "Why can't Samantha love me?" And then the minute she loves me I can't handle it. I'm tired of all that. We're all adults...I don't know. It is very complicated. It's not a very black and white thing at all, at all. [00:15:04]
CLIENT: Well also but it is a little bit about too that she's got a very set life. She's made her priorities clear. She wants to stay at (inaudible). She wants to do well there in her career. Her son is her life. So even though she says things, like the other night she was like, "It would be cool if we had a studio where you could do your work and I could do my work." And I get all that. I would like that. That's all great but something seems...you know what I mean? I feel like at the end of the day though (pause) she has her life. She's making time for me but (pause) I can't explain it. I can't quite put my finger on it.
CLIENT: I feel like the things she says does sound like that a little bit but I guess because...(pause) I don't know. I can't explain it. Maybe it's just where we are in our lives. Obviously it feels different. I feel like no matter what happens I'm the one who has to kind of accommodate. She has a child. And she's...who knows if she wants to get married again or even have another kid, all that stuff. So no matter what I feel like I have to (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah! You know...so I don't know. That's why I'm saying maybe at the end of the day it will work out in the sense that we'll just have a talk and be like, "Look, (pause) maybe this is so great let's not fuck with it but let's also be honest about the fact that we are also kind of living separate lives to some extent and (pause) if stuff kind of happens in those separate lives that's not (pause) anything against what we have." (pause) I don't know. [00:18:24]
CLIENT: Well because I'm also happy that I haven't done what I've done in the past which is just drift apart from her, stop contacting her, you know what I mean? I used to do shit like that. It's great! I mean I do really, really enjoy spending time with her.
CLIENT: That's right, that's right. Because yeah it's like, "Of course your son is your life but that's kind of the point is that that's great and that's the way it should be but these other parts of your life are very...it's your son and your work, which is great." (pause) I mean, what, it's almost May? So since the end of October, (pause) it's only now that she's opening up a little bit more. That's great but...[00:22:03]
CLIENT: Not at all.
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly. I could almost have a baby with a girlfriend and then just be all about the baby. Yeah, no, absolutely. That's something you made.
CLIENT: Right.
CLIENT: No, no.
CLIENT: Or that if I do meet someone who I do really like, like Kelly (sp), I have to go 100 miles an hour and like that's it. "I love you. Do you love me?" So like I said, I think she's the smarter one in this case to be like, "I totally want to hang out. I do care about you deeply but I'm not saying the L word. I'm not getting all sappy. I don't need to see you every single day. I don't need to talk on the phone (chuckle)." Even though she's like, "You can call me anytime. Maybe we should talk on the phone more." Like she says all the right things. It's not like she's being cold or anything. She's very warm, but I think she's right. [00:29:06]
CLIENT: No I don't mean it that way. I just mean that...no it's very complicated but that's the opposite. I'm saying I'm accepting the fact that it's not in a pretty box at all, that it's a clusterfuck. But I'm just accepting that it is what it is. (pause) My life's complicated. I'm sometimes moody. Sometimes I just want to be alone. It doesn't matter who the girl is that I'm with. Sometimes I just want to have sex with some other girl and for whatever reason often times I'm not able to say no to that. (pause) There's a part of me that feels like if you're a really serious artist (pause) you need to really be independent, even from (pause)...you know what I mean? So it's very complicated. I think I'm just coming to grips with a lot of different things that I believe. I don't know. [00:30:35]
CLIENT: What do you mean?
CLIENT: This is awesome! What do you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah but you have such a different (inaudible). This is...(pause) this is like almost something outside of the time-space continuum. (chuckle) It's just totally different, just totally different.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, no diggity no doubt. Of course! Yeah there are days when...I think I was telling you this, right? Did I say this last time? There are days lately when I feel like the session's lasting a long time. Did I say that?
CLIENT: Yeah, not today because I didn't see you yesterday and there's a lot to talk...but there have been days recently as I've felt better and better and better I've been feeling like sometimes the sessions last a long time (pause) and the only thing I can say about that is I feel better so there's less speaking through my mind and also yeah, I do feel more vulnerable. You know what I mean? The more layers you peel back I feel like...(chuckle) [00:39:20]
CLIENT: Right. (pause) Plus again, I think it would really bother me if I didn't like or something. Like in the past, other people I had seen in the past, I kind of looked down...not looked down on them but I felt like they were kind of idiots or Birkenstock-wearing morons. They were just like, "Well you're clearly depressed because you lost your dad." Like they were trying to box...I just had no time for that. Then I'd want to get the fuck out of here. (chuckle) But you know, I like being here. I like you so it doesn't...it's just very comfortable.
CLIENT: Remember?
CLIENT: Yeah because your friends know about this but then we're all pretending like just a week ago you weren't at your mom's telling this woman that it was all...and here we are, having a joint? That's fucking weird man, that's like schizo.
CLIENT: Yeah it's like my mom totally bringing me down and then being like, "Oh, let's laugh! It's good to laugh! Don't be down. Why are you so down?" (chuckle) "All I do is laugh with other people. You're a fucking black hole and then you're telling me to cheer up?" It's like, are you kidding me? (pause) That was rude, I'm sorry. I didn't mean that. But that's what it feels like. It's just like...(chuckle) [00:44:44]
CLIENT: Yeah, I have a question to ask you by the way, a technical question: is there a particular time of the month that you cash checks and stuff? Not really? [00:50:55]
CLIENT: Just because I've noticed that there have been like...it's somewhat regular that it happens that you cash (chuckle) my checks right that Wednesday or Thursday before I'm paid.
CLIENT: So when I have a little bit of money left suddenly I don't because there are these checks cashed.
CLIENT: That's okay! That's fine, that's totally okay. I was just wondering if there's a way we can (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm paid every two weeks so I just got paid today.
CLIENT: Okay, I will. Thank you, I appreciate that.
CLIENT: And I'll drop off a check for you on Monday.
CLIENT: Yes, so I owe you for twice.
CLIENT: This past week.
CLIENT: Right, I know. I'm sorry.
CLIENT: No I totally understand. Of course, I totally understand. Okay, thanks honey (ph). Have a good weekend!
