THERAPIST: Hmm?
THERAPIST: Monday?
THERAPIST: Despair?
THERAPIST: All of the hope and wish and fantasy doesn't get solidified as about...
THERAPIST: Her?
THERAPIST: Then what if it didn't work out because of her? The old stuff in your wants to kinda take that as incredibly personal...
THERAPIST: Instead of, you know, you've alluded to the timing of people meeting, seems like that...
THERAPIST: Like things don't work out?
THERAPIST: So you think it's shifted a little?
THERAPIST: You're also starting to talk about this image of a man as a particular kind of pillar of strength and stoicism.
THERAPIST: I just wonder, it sounds like it feels so much a truth inside you, that it almost doesn't occur to you to start talking about it and it may be something that just somehow what you grew to believe. So to know and say that out loud...
THERAPIST: Look at it and figure out where it came from.
THERAPIST: Honestly does it feel extreme (ph) to see the real Dave, instead of a fantasy of Dave?
THERAPIST: Bestow? [00:09:49]
THERAPIST: So what is it, when you think about him, what have you given him?
THERAPIST: When you say giving him these...
THERAPIST: What qualities? [00:10:53]
THERAPIST: Hmm. So they, I mean we don't talk as much about men as women but men can have that kind of idealization too.
THERAPIST: Discovering that they too (ph) are projective objects, they're not actually whole people, but certain people who fit certain criteria of the fantasy get sort of pulled into the fantasy...
THERAPIST: Went off on Dave?
THERAPIST: But not to Dave about Dave?
THERAPIST: His intention was not to...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like one of the things you're doing is pulling apart the difference between how you feel and what someone's intentions and actions are about. That just because you feel a certain thing doesn't mean that's what actually the intention or what's happening...
THERAPIST: It's kind of definition if you boil it down to what paranoia is. The assumption that there is no difference between what I feel and what's happening...
THERAPIST: If you feel like people are out to get you doesn't mean they actually are or just cause you feel like an outsider doesn't mean people are looking at you like an outsider. That there's a whole inner life going on...
THERAPIST: You had friends...
THERAPIST: Which is a totally separate thing, right? That's what you're saying, right? If you can make it through to "it doesn't really matter" then there's some space to actually think about who they are as separate people.
THERAPIST: But it's really hard for you to imagine and believe I might care about you?
THERAPIST: You're constantly looking for that proof that they don't really like you after all, you're mind is scanning for that?
THERAPIST: That's the feeling of a child...that's if you're parents don't love you, in your mind, if that's what you experience, if you don't feel love, that is the end of it, as a child and I think you do carry that feeling with you about men into relationships now. It's best if he doesn't, if she doesn't, then that's it, that proves it. [00:25:15] As though in some way in the fantasy that they're each you're mother and you're father.
THERAPIST: Looking still for that validation, confirmation, you never got.
THERAPIST: That may be sad? (ph) (pause) [00:28:09]
THERAPIST: In your external life?
THERAPIST: But not inside?
THERAPIST: There was a time a few weeks ago where you, we had just been talking about the feeling that you don't yet have the story of what you want to write and all the sudden you started writing for a couple days. Do you remember that?
THERAPIST: You actually came in here with more detailed memory then I've ever heard for the next couple days about things from the past. It sort of felt like something had opened up. It doesn't mean I feel like what you wrote has much substance yet but you started writing something then stopped again.
THERAPIST: So what stops you from just setting aside in your schedule, in your planner, several chunks of time where it's your writing time?
THERAPIST: Have you tried that? Where you?
THERAPIST: But what if you said, not all day but at 9 am, from 9 to 10 I write everyday? Then I stop writing at 10?
THERAPIST: What would happen?
THERAPIST: Why not?
THERAPIST: What happens?
THERAPIST: What are you most wanting to work on right now? What's the next step?
THERAPIST: It has some? It's partly done?
THERAPIST: Like so not even concerned with the quality of the writing?
THERAPIST: So what's, what happens? You go to do it and what happens?
THERAPIST: It's extreme self-criticism.
THERAPIST: It does sound like being almost constricted in your freedom of expression.
THERAPIST: I wonder if that comes up sometimes in here too? That it sometimes feels it can feel like you're supposed to have the right answer or the right idea or if you say something that isn't quite what you mean or that changes once it starts coming out of your mouth, like it's not...You get very all the sudden self-conscious and self-critical about what it is you're saying that wasn't quite right. You don't get to just play, try ideas, discard some and just see what comes.
THERAPIST: It's not free.
THERAPIST: Like I think a little bit about that when you, you know we've talked a little bit about, it's this, but then you say on the other hand I...like it's one way of sort of having to make sure that I get it, or that you get the complete picture so that there are no misinterpretations, following that line into it's intensity and what's in there and like if that isn't the perfect end picture of you, you get worried we have to, you know, make sure we get the whole thing. You know?
THERAPIST: Although that's a kind of safer place to criticize from than what if you write it, or what if you go down one of these pathways and you find something you don't like.
THERAPIST: What if it feels terrible or what if it feels really vulnerable, you know if you really invest in line, not knowing where it's going.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's almost like if you really let yourself do these things, go down these paths, there's a fear that you'll find you are what you really fear you are. You just said like the fear that I'm really just an ugly loser...
THERAPIST: So it feels like staying put kind of confirms that?
THERAPIST: Which is scary?
THERAPIST: Even here? Like lying on the couch?
THERAPIST: Like lying on the couch? You're out of you're comfort zone on the chair?
THERAPIST: Then what comes out, what happens...(pause) [00:44:00] [00:45:20]
THERAPIST: So we'll meet again Monday?
THERAPIST: Monday at 9:10. We'll do the one time?
THERAPIST: Does that sound...?
THERAPIST: Monday at 9:10 and then the following Monday thereafter will be 10:00.
THERAPIST: You too.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Oh, yes. Yes.
THERAPIST: Well, it also sounds like your reaction had space for both (pause) anger at the system that continuously recreates this kind of experience for people, and ownership of your own decision making.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) that they can both be there. (ph)
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Yeah that's what feels really different. I think you're saying six months or a year ago it would have been (pause) only this system part.
THERAPIST: Which in a way makes you feel even more oddly. As much as it sounds like it could feel worse to feel like oh this is my fault too, it actually Then you're a person amongst people.
THERAPIST: Rather than the world is against you. They all have something that (inaudible due to overlapping voices at [00:11:28])
THERAPIST: Well, right, we didn't learn (inaudible at [00:11:36] from parents that you're being taught; don't avoid these things. This is the thing, of anything not to avoid, this is (overlapping voices) the thing you want to -
THERAPIST: You're adding even the part about finding your way into something without actually knowing the full unfolding of a vision for the future. Like, will getting this degree actually be worth it for me or not, given all that it costs, how few jobs are.
THERAPIST: You weren't in a place then, of thinking about that.
THERAPIST: You were in grad school, but that that was the most important thing of anything in the world.
THERAPIST: Thinking about whether or not you practically would use this degree was not even part of the equation.
THERAPIST: That's also (overlapping voices) so, so (inaudible at [00:12:55])
THERAPIST: Even London (ph)?
THERAPIST: Had things been different. It sounds like we can't know. We can't know whether it would or wouldn't have made any one of these decisions, but you might have been making a decision with much more awareness about pros and cons (overlapping voices) (inaudible at [00:14:14]
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Knowing the whole lay of the land, what it'll do, what it won't do, (overlapping voices) and them making a decision from that place whether it's worth it or not.
THERAPIST: Which is really different than kind of (overlapping voices) having -
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Yeah, and having to live sort of reactively instead of proactively.
THERAPIST: (Pause) That's what I hear gets triggered was you start to write, is there's this moment where not having been proactive hurts you so much. But there's a price (ph) to just breathe for a second. Just go do not avoid writing.
THERAPIST: Just start writing.
THERAPIST: In addition to feeling passionately about something you're actually writing about it.
THERAPIST: It's really, really disappointing to hear.
THERAPIST: And anxiety (inaudible at [00:16:12]) for you to notice how far they can get into your personal affairs.
THERAPIST: I didn't know they could do that. It's so sad.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) Then they keep on and create this kind of cycle of avoidance.
THERAPIST: Because it feels too shaming to approach and deal with the thing that feels (overlapping voices) (inaudible at [00:18:13])
THERAPIST: I wonder that aren't you (ph) you've said that a number of times that when you do something like it's as though you're in your head, that that you're the only one. [00:18:48] It's like I mean It just makes me wonder if in your family there was no room for people doing things that made them feel embarrassed. Like screwing something up, making mistakes, (overlapping voices)
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) and just having that mean; Oh yeah, I screwed up. Silly me, or what a fool I was. (overlapping voices) I can't
THERAPIST: Not to have that be sort of a normal part of human experience that can be known by other people.
THERAPIST: Which has this odd then self-fulfilling prophecy, because what it does do, is then make you go to this extreme of avoidance.
THERAPIST: Which isn't as common. But what is common is people default on their loans. People make mistakes. People have struggling (inaudible at [00:20:23]) Normal, common stuff.
THERAPIST: That you get made to feel like you're the only one.
THERAPIST: Somehow everybody else has it together (overlapping voices). Right?
THERAPIST: So, then you have to sort of retreat even more. Instead of just being you amongst many people, and having that be known and (overlapping voices) understood.
THERAPIST: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) That's what that person does for a living. (laughing)
THERAPIST: It's like forgetting to do or bring in your homework one day. It feels embarrassing. Right? You tell the teacher I forgot. It's much more embarrassing if you don't tell the teacher. You pretend you didn't forget.
THERAPIST: Then days and days go by. Then it gets worse and worse and worse and worse. And it actually does look worse.
THERAPIST: Instead of being able to have that be a part of your family culture. That when you make mistakes that you own up to them and figure it out, and make amends, and-that's just so normal.
THERAPIST: What would your parents do with their mistakes?
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) When they goofed up or -
THERAPIST: Was it? (ph) She was dizzy. And she's I hear you describing she was sitting on the stairs or something and saying like "Oh, I'm sorry" (overlapping voices) and eventually being apologetic.
THERAPIST: But there's a way you describe even that kind of neurotic (inaudible at [00:25:10]) neurotic state as if (pause) it's still not a full accountability and ownership of (overlapping voices) what she's done wrong.
THERAPIST: It's sort of like the opposite. Oh, (overlapping voices) I screwed everything up.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Yes.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) And what's actually in me that's the (overlapping voices) problem.
THERAPIST: What do I need to work on in this?
THERAPIST: Or woe is me. I can't do anything right. Actually in its own way is not ownership of (overlapping voices) anything.
THERAPIST: I mean, that's why you're saying: What have What haven't they screwed up? Well, they probably got a lot of things right too. So, it's sort of this I'm a everything's a screw up. We've got nothing that we worked for or -
THERAPIST: You weren't here Thursday and Friday.
THERAPIST: You weren't here on Thursday and Friday (overlapping voices)?
THERAPIST: Two (ph) Just us (ph)
THERAPIST: How about just something (ph) (inaudible at [00:31:28])
THERAPIST: It's an absence (ph). (pause)
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) (inaudible at 00:32:32)
THERAPIST: Yeah, not approaching it actually keeps reinforcing it that it's really, really, really hard -
THERAPIST: because you never get to (pause) go approach it (overlapping voices) and figure it out, and see that that's all it is.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Right. Right.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Right.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Things are in place. You've got a plan. (ph)
THERAPIST: When it feels though I mean, your association to whatever this thing is you're describing about being locked up. And it sounds like being dragged out for public humiliation. Right? (overlapping voices) Put on display.
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes.
THERAPIST: When the authorities in your life it's authorities, mom and dad, were so humiliating of you in so many different ways. [00:37:21] Like being out there, being yourself, got exposed and humiliated you in negative (ph) ways all the time. That I think you're just carrying that as a (inaudible at [00:37:30]) what other negative (ph) people are going to do too.
THERAPIST: Do you know then I don't want to what? What was it like when you were there? What -
THERAPIST: By (ph) what?
THERAPIST: So, but the social parts of it, or about being judged in the job you were (overlapping voices) doing. Or the
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) All of it.
THERAPIST: To even ask questions.
THERAPIST: That's such an image. Here was this freakish, dark outsider. Who's being (inaudible at [00:40:01])
THERAPIST: Intellectually, you know that that's actually not what it was. (ph) (overlapping voices) It just felt like that's how it was.
THERAPIST: It's interesting that you're adding also that there's something about seeing your father's image and then I can sense something about that length (ph) that made it feel like this is I don't want to be doing this type of work or [00:42:24]
THERAPIST: You You were there, (overlapping voices) with him.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Like lying under there with him, you mean?
THERAPIST: When you say, what is that -?
THERAPIST: No, when you say that; so he's in a factory. He's working four to one. What about that for you? I guess I'm not (overlapping voices)
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Like its: What kind of life is that?
THERAPIST: Was he unhappy, (overlapping voices) doing what he was doing?
THERAPIST: And he complained about it, but he -
THERAPIST: No
THERAPIST: That is was grunt work for him. That he (overlapping voices) (inaudible at [00:46:05])
THERAPIST: I mean, I ask I ask that because you said something (ph) about driving taxis. There's some people who do that who love it. That -
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) That's what I'm trying to say. What if -
THERAPIST: So, the legacy of what they've been through. That maybe-that maybe the make the hope of moving here, life would be different (overlapping voices) and it's not it's the same (inaudible at [00:47:34]) struggle.
THERAPIST: Thursday?
THERAPIST: Yes, okay. At the usual times.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: umm hmm, umm hmm.
THERAPIST: That's great. These are like loan consolidations?
THERAPIST: Four places that you have a loan.
THERAPIST: It's very different.
THERAPIST: It's not just that everything is great
THERAPIST: It's like it's kind of ordinary.
THERAPIST: If bigger things were there, it's a lot of feeling right now. Maybe that's not something you would get into.
THERAPIST: And yet with closer, more intimate friends share the same way?
THERAPIST: Because of the mood.
THERAPIST: That's about what it is. I mean just that it's a sea of, it sounds hard to mobilize and so much criticism.
THERAPIST: Too little too late.
THERAPIST: You know that there is just so much criticism.
THERAPIST: No wonder you can't write.
THERAPIST: Sooo self-critical.
THERAPIST: There's no freedom to move even.
THERAPIST: Of course. [0:10:12]
THERAPIST: We talked about how even speaking here can feel like that too.
THERAPIST: Being here is being in a minefield, like editing.
THERAPIST: The moment you start the sentence you edited it already.
THERAPIST: Like an editing?
THERAPIST: You know the more that's at stake in a way
THERAPIST: All three of these you're talking about, you're like what happens when your vulnerable real self just comes out spontaneously, like maybe it's not going to be ok. Maybe something bad happens and maybe she won't like it.
THERAPIST: Maybe I sound like an idiot.
THERAPIST: All these fears about like what's really there if you let down your guard.
THERAPIST: You felt like you.
THERAPIST: Being yourself, but it does sound how you describe it, like you (pause) for a second. Almost like, I almost feel like the (pause) is there like is that an ok thing to say?
THERAPIST: Like you're not asking me, but there is a kind of, is that ok?
THERAPIST: And I had to think it out.
THERAPIST: To see whether that was, I really think like how would that sound, which is different. Like it's almost like the editing, you're giving me the final sentence that has already been popped through and edited quite a bit instead of coming, it's not that it's bad, it's just noticing how much there still is there anxiety about what of you to show and not show. [0:15:05]
THERAPIST: Or becomes an impasse, it's not happening.
THERAPIST: Like don't rock the boat almost.
THERAPIST: So what is that thing that is so powerful?
THERAPIST: Anxiety about what? Do you know? Can you be specific about it?
THERAPIST: Your association to that just now, would also be why that you have to do things alone. I wonder if there's something about going to the gym, and doing pushups, doing situps even writing. These are things that are alone.
THERAPIST: You know I wonder if there's something that's sort of, it's going out into the world by yourself that actually somehow you feel more protected from that feeling at home.
THERAPIST: It can be intimidating.
THERAPIST: But that was also a time when you weren't as aware as you are right now, I think, of how alone you feel.
THERAPIST: You may just be tired of it.
THERAPIST: At night?
THERAPIST: Yeah
THERAPIST: Well I have since start wondering about, [inaudible] they're talking about this show that you were realizing [inaudible] and down in the City benefits show, you just didn't feel like practice for or going down for.
THERAPIST: It has a little of that feel the way you keep saying I think something else is going to, I'm going to be able to do this soon. [0:27:11]
THERAPIST: But it's like you bring up being in a bar and seeing girls or, as that motivation to be out starts dying off it's just not the central motivating force, for that validation. You know there can be this lull for a little while before you find why else you would do things.
THERAPIST: Like if it's not to get noticed or seen, or be a rock star or get validated like…
THERAPIST: Why do you go sit and write? If it's not for the end goal of being famous?
THERAPIST: Or being known by the world? You know the [inaudible] fantasies.
THERAPIST: Why would you go to the gym even, if it's not for someone to notice your body or you know like, why would you do that?
THERAPIST: I don't know that I've ever heard you say that before.
THERAPIST: It's so, so different.
THERAPIST: Right, if it's not going there to improve upon something you're disappointed in,
THERAPIST: or fix something, or make something better. In a way you haven't had the space to think why else you would then do things like that.
THERAPIST: Would you go just for health reasons?
THERAPIST: Just to stay in shape for your health, not for appearance, but for health. Or because it feels good.
THERAPIST: It's good for you, every doctor will say that.
THERAPIST: Writing then sounds like, in your literal way it will head right now, but right now it feels like it is this place that really is imbued with harsh self criticism. Maybe your not, like the gym as you're letting go of the reasons that are the harsh ones, like trying to think what would be positive reasons why I would do this thing for me. [0:33:00]
THERAPIST: Yes, I know, so I was thinking where you started off today, with this feeling of [inaudible] I go out now, I don't quite know what to say when people say how are you? What's up? You used to have a kind of manner socially, and even in here about there's always a story, there's always you'll never guessed what happened to me this week. And then there's a story in the present. I think some of that has been, is kind of when you talk about being able to say a lot without actually saying that much, that if there's an exciting story, but to try to come back down, getting away from the circus stories into what are the real deeper stories. I think actually isn't as easy as might, there's a lot up here, but actually from your words [0:35:08]
THERAPIST: Finding words for it, even in here
THERAPIST: It's sort of like you don't know quite how to get in.
THERAPIST: I think there is more to the piece of it being alone. I mean I remember, I think it was last week, maybe the week before. I was asking you, I asked you some pretty pointed questions about what was, how was affection expressed with your mother, like kind of what did that look like? You kept saying, I don't know. I just can't remember, I don't know I can't remember, I don't know, it's like a lot of I don't knows. It literally felt like there's something why you know about what that was like, but there are no words yet. There is no story yet for that relationship, and I you know, there may be a lot of feeling attached to that story, so it's not, it's not verbalizable yet, and words are trying every now and then the stories that filled our lives will pop up, like hearing about your apartment, and just that of this moment where all this detail came out. I felt like, there's a story, there's a story here that I've never heard before. That came from somewhere. Something happened, I couldn't get that, but I think that [0:37:44]
THERAPIST: Yes we do.
THERAPIST: Kind of a good dream.
THERAPIST: It wasn't anyone in particular?
THERAPIST: Do you remember anything else about her?
THERAPIST: Nylon? [0:42:04]
THERAPIST: In the life.
THERAPIST: Mother and it's happy.
THERAPIST: And someone shows up with a big guitar with your favorite strings on it.
THERAPIST: It's like it's a good that things are. You're taken care of, you feel loved.
THERAPIST: Or a wish for a different mom.
THERAPIST: To be continued.
THERAPIST: Not much.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: But it might have even helped paying over your head still that you should have
THERAPIST: That's great.
THERAPIST: Wow!
THERAPIST: What's it like? It's so, so different.
THERAPIST: Like [inaudible] is just fade out.
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: So loving.
THERAPIST: This is Abil at the bar?
THERAPIST: And he's Lebanese.
THERAPIST: Well you know it's really grounded in the alley, you trust him.
THERAPIST: It also sounds like you really conceive of this as your project.
THERAPIST: It's not a band touring.
THERAPIST: She did?
THERAPIST: So many different openings to get potentially draw into something old
THERAPIST: It didn't crush you sense of yourself, the fact that you could pursue the error with no you don't get what I'm saying to you, and explain.
THERAPIST: Just thinking about your dream. That you mentioned at the very end yesterday, so it's your family scene, but it's not your mother. It's almost like you're describing the feeling of approaching her with another, it's not your mother inside you anymore. She's outside, but there's more of just you inside instead of all the vulnerabilities that are connected to her.
THERAPIST: It's the words you never heard as a kid.
THERAPIST: There's an openness all of the sudden to you, maybe they actually mean it.
THERAPIST: Maybe you can see that, what they see, a little bit.
THERAPIST: This may seem like a faraway thing to think about, but it does make me wonder. What it would feel like, if you imagined, if it crossed your mind, what it would feel like to be away from this space for a little while?
THERAPIST: Who gets attached?
THERAPIST: You're close.
THERAPIST: Have you thought about without her what it would be like?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think I'm bringing up only a sore thing. There could be not doing going to Assyria, not touring as an avoidance, as a sort of relying on something that actually isn't taking advantage of your real talents and traits and living them out right? That's what you're trying not to
THERAPIST: And there may be some times where there have been decisions you've made kind of in a bubble to have not thinking through what the consequences would be, and I think that's all I'm just acting like I have consequences well but that actually
THERAPIST: Not to say they're bigger or that worth not going at all! [0:24:10]
THERAPIST: Like your mother.
THERAPIST: Just do it.
THERAPIST: Just think about the fact that you even have both going on.
THERAPIST: That's so, that doesn't happen. People aren't trying to be starving artists and doing music, or being a writer and try having a side job. You're trying to do both, or at least telling yourself you should be doing both.
THERAPIST: That's real.
THERAPIST: Yeah you haven't mentioned that part yesterday when you were talking about driving around. You added today that you were listening to something that you actually
THERAPIST: You did?
THERAPIST: Or maybe I meant I thought you were listening to the radio or something. You're actually listening to your own work.
THERAPIST: So you're working when you're driving.
THERAPIST: That's not driving around aimlessly.
THERAPIST: In your process?
THERAPIST: What was clicking was to beat yourself up for not writing when you have a full time job, and are really pursuing music.
THERAPIST: You said, it's so interesting that you're saying that the voice comes in, but what's that, people don't know them as though that's what makes it valuable and real.
THERAPIST: But that and your history, that's it. If people don't know that you're working on fragments, that they are all there, there's a lot. Funny I didn't know how much is going on, as I feel like you're telling me something new today. About how much is going on with this. But that was never valued, as something that is going on that's really important. [0:35:05]
THERAPIST: That you're prolific.
THERAPIST: You're starting to
THERAPIST: You'll figure it out.
THERAPIST: So many ways you discounted parts of yourself as not important.
THERAPIST: It's so strong. It's been, not now, but it's been so strong in you and I even can feel the pull and this almost losing touch with the reality of what you do. How you can beat yourself up for not being a writer, not writing anything. You published a book of poetry at one of the most reputable poetry publishing houses. You were recruited as a poet. How much that gets forgotten in your own memory. It's an affected knowing of yourself and it's real, that really happened. [0:39:17]
THERAPIST: And also not feeling good about it. [0:40:12]
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Like you say that, but if you're not convinced yourself. That's the pill. They hear the affect, and not the words.
THERAPIST: Which I think is changing. Some of the ways you described
THERAPIST: That used to maybe give you an out to not do it.
THERAPIST: And now you're saying you think you're ready not to have that out.
THERAPIST: And some leg work.
THERAPIST: But that's it.
THERAPIST: It's not insurmountable, like taxes.
THERAPIST: So Monday? 10'oclock?
THERAPIST: Christmas is Tuesday so I'll be here Thursday, Friday so those would work on my schedule, do they work on yours?
THERAPIST: The following week I'm just out New Year's Day so New Year's Eve would also work, does that work?
THERAPIST: The other thing is that my Friday schedule for a kind of winter intercession right now changes around a little bit, so I wonder if we could find a mid-day time so it's between, starting Friday the 14th of December all the through to the beginning of March. We have to find a slightly earlier time. Mid-day, something like, I'll know definitively but something like 10:40, 11:30, 12:45 sometime in there. Those are all ok? [0:01:12]
THERAPIST: Ok, I'll let you know. Definitively.
THERAPIST: Anyone one of those work better than another?
THERAPIST: After, so March 1st I think is a Friday we can move back to that time, to the 3:10 time then for the rest of this semester.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah?
THERAPIST: Things you're tackling.
THERAPIST: That's what things are new about, even if you don't do it.
THERAPIST: To have it cross your mind that you could do it, or can even envision training for it.
THERAPIST: You were very aware of how normal you're saying, and that was making you nervous.
THERAPIST: Even as a kid.
THERAPIST: So much you're getting at I think. Trying to figure it out. [0:10:15]
THERAPIST: One of the things, just getting a little more specific about what you're saying. One of the things that feels like it's kind of haunting and creates some anxiety now is waiting for it's all of sudden like getting a rug pulled out from under or something.
THERAPIST: There's some feeling built up inside of you that things could be good, good, good, good and all of the sudden not good, and gone.
THERAPIST: So I wonder that from you
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: That hypervigilance for that shoe to drop is stronger. Not that that doesn't happen, of course those things can happen.
THERAPIST: Well, ok I don't. I mean I guess in. It's a very specific fantasy about what goes on inside that she's there, she's there, she's there and all of the sudden she's not there. It just makes me wonder what, like what comes to mind about that in your childhood? Specifically that. [0:15:03]
THERAPIST: Maybe I had to hear you say it. I don't think it's, had you been securely attached as a kid, losing your dad I think would feel very differently.
THERAPIST: In other words it's not just that.
THERAPIST: When you feel you just know you were loved for who you are, that loss.
THERAPIST: That you, people in relationships disappointed in each other and annoy each other.
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness.
THERAPIST: Yeah but
THERAPIST: As though that kind of little thing would be the thing breaks someone loving you.
THERAPIST: Does it make you nervous today when I start to talk?
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Well it's a couple times it seems just as I'm starting to say something to you. It almost feels likes you're not sure you want to hear what I have to say. Like what if I say something you don't want to hear, or embarrassing, or [0:24:01]
THERAPIST: I don't know.
THERAPIST: It felt like that, sort of felt like keeping me at bay.
THERAPIST: Oh nothing, nothing in particular. It's not so much that as, I guess some of what your saying right now makes me think some about if there are ways as a kid one of the things that happened wasn't just being alone but the feeling that you might have reached out with a tremendous amount of feeling and it wasn't returned at some point. You know what I mean? It's not that
THERAPIST: For sure.
THERAPIST: Right it's like self-protective, we talk about this, and kind of get into the minutiae of should you text or not text, that question, and should you be protecting your heart by not texting in case she's not there. That kind of self protection can be defensive, right? Like just in case I don't want to get hurt. It can also have grown from a place of, if you think of the word, self protective. Like when you had adults around you who love you and protect you in all the ways that you need, and want, and desire? That's just in you to know where to be vulnerable with yourself, and where not to be vulnerable with yourself. It's a kind of a, more of a healthier way of knowing the boundaries around yourself. Instead of a retreat to a place that's just only kind of defensive. [0:28:00]
THERAPIST: This is what's so complicated about it, and I think there's moments.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes. [0:29:04]
THERAPIST: That's the central problem with how you, is how loving and being a fool, or being a chump that collapse into being one and the same, in your history. I think they're the same. To love someone means you're being a chump. [0:30:01]
THERAPIST: To be loved.
THERAPIST: As another way of loving a part of you.
THERAPIST: To be admired, so that even good things, even good things getting seen feels embarrassing. It's nothing wrong with being seen. Just as like something a part of you that feels like a negative thing or something. You were so unseen as a kid, that to be seen in anyway now feels embarrassing. It feels like being exposed, even for a talent. [0:32:08]
THERAPIST: So much just emotion.
THERAPIST: It's really new. What to feel that kind of love. What to feel like just to feel like maybe there's something in your life that's kind of stable and there for you, and maybe isn't the kind of relationship where it's kind of something could happen and it's over instantaneously.
THERAPIST: She sees you, just to see something like that.
THERAPIST: And for the first time seeing you doesn't feel only embarrassing.
THERAPIST: Like maybe that could feel good too.
THERAPIST: Even here. That's what's been happening too for me I think so many parts of yourself, and probably still some more to go but that you would secretly imagine would be somehow, something, a deal breaker or something terrible about you will finally get revealed. To just be more and more open here, when have it be that it doesn't really change anything is enough.
THERAPIST: You could be fine in that book, or maybe just in your mom's looking out for time, and your Dad too, but to a point and then if you are this or are that or say this or hear this way, and you're not as loved as. [0:40:16] By your own mother.
THERAPIST: As opposed to just knowing you are absolutely your own person with your own foibles, and quirks, and likes and dislikes, and she loves that whole person.
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: WHAT?
THERAPIST: Do they not understand acne?
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness. [0:41:04]
THERAPIST: So she would talk about it with your Uncle, with other adults?
THERAPIST: In front of you?
THERAPIST: And also specifically saying we didn't have that?
THERAPIST: There's also a way as you described in these examples, it's like, unconsciously the outsider gets both idealized you know the [inaudible] of the American, but also derided. [0:43:16]
THERAPIST: Here they have Alzheimer's, they have acne, they have gay people.
THERAPIST: And so to the decree that you start being associated with the absent culture because you're here and you're the kid. It's like all that bad stuff gets put located in you, they have none of that. You have that. Things that everybody has and grows up with.
THERAPIST: And sometimes you became the container for the bad stuff in their minds you know?
THERAPIST: I mean what a horrible thing to say to a kid. I never had that. I mean it's not only how hard it is for adolescents anyway facing
THERAPIST: But it's not oh I remember when this happened to me too, this is what I did. Kind of joining into a community of people, I'm like this, I'm like this too with you. It's what's wrong with you? Is the reaction. It's humiliating.
THERAPIST: You didn't fold and comply.
THERAPIST: But you are aware of that even
THERAPIST: Which isn't true.
THERAPIST: Thursday, and this Friday. Normal schedule, it's just not till the 14th.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What kind of things, today, are coming up as an example?
THERAPIST: Meaning they've been emptied but somehow got
THERAPIST: They're both examples of people you're sensing that your territory is being encroached upon.
THERAPIST: You want to know if it's been harder to talk about in a way because it's like maybe this part that doesn't feel calm, cool, and collected. It feels confusing. What is this inside you? When you recognize it's about in the moment it feels like a small thing, but I don't know that in the meaning of it, it is a small thing inside. It feels a little out of control.
THERAPIST: That's what we have to figure out. (pause) When you're seating up there I wonder if that certain bond that set of feelings too. That you're sitting there saying you know it's another place that feels like someone is encroaching on your space. And you say I can't help I just take it personally. Well how would you think that when you say that?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like what does it mean? What's the unconscious fantasy about it?
THERAPIST: And what would happen in that buffer zone, that would make you feel better?
THERAPIST: Yeah because I wonder as we think about generalizing it to the garbage cans too, where it's not a, until your family arrived, there's still even something happening about that. That is not about feeling claustrophobic with people.
THERAPIST: Other people's stuff, other people's garbage. [0:11:01]
THERAPIST: Does it make you feel like just a number? When there's so many people? Like how much then do you matter or something?
THERAPIST: I don't know why you wanted to just started talking about it, it's a nice dream. You like the dreams you used to have. You'd never say much about the dream beyond that it would be yelling, screaming usually at your mother. And now be it just an image of screaming in one form or another. That there's anger there in all of this, and how you've felt hard to be in some ways intrusive and claustrophobically humbling and present around you. Both neglectful and then intrusive at the same time. [0:14:08]
THERAPIST: What's coming to mind when you say that?
THERAPIST: Because it looks like there's a lot of feeling going into that.
THERAPIST: How would they annoy you?
THERAPIST: How about angry?
THERAPIST: Or claustrophobic.
THERAPIST: Surrounded by people but still [inaudible]. (30 second pause)
THERAPIST: You're so quick to criticize it [inaudible] [0:18:05]
THERAPIST: But why do those feelings not matter?
THERAPIST: What about that sound right now?
THERAPIST: Which is different than what I think you also know they're toying with understanding that your, because you're feeling this way today you're picking up on things in different ways. You don't always feel this way, I mean even here. [0:20:09]
THERAPIST: Then becomes what?
THERAPIST: I get that part, but what exactly is it? Is it like an intrusion?
THERAPIST: I don't know why I keep getting crazy images of something. This sounds like a fantasy metaphor because we don't know concretely but something so, so clear like [inaudible] As you describe lets say walking into Starbucks and this is gonna be the day where it's just a zoo, and [inaudible] nothing goes my way. It's like the feeling of just wanting to be held, and the environment to kind of hold you and take care of you, and have it just be okay, and safe, and quiet if you want quiet, or loud if you want it loud, or social if you want it social, or you know. Just the wish for that to kind of fall in and hold you that it keeps getting some days there's some feeling that make that feel like it's getting absolutely squashed. [0:23:15] (pause)
THERAPIST: See I think you must have felt that as a baby. Learned pretty quickly that it wasn't worth it.
THERAPIST: I don't know exactly who [inaudible] but I do know is parents don't have a personality transformation between when their child is a baby and when their child is a child. And so what we know about how your mother responded to you as a child is also has to be a piece of how she responded to you as a baby.
THERAPIST: So if they're narcissistically preoccupied when your 4 and 5, and 12, and 17. They probably are when you're a baby too. Even though a snapshot photo shows a moment where they truly are getting narcissistic gratification over this baby. But is it about the baby, and getting to know this little person, and who this person is gonna be? Or is it about the parents? Is it about her projection into the baby about who she wants the baby to be? Even what the baby means for her. [0:26:15]
THERAPIST: So much. Or the feeling that this one better be.
THERAPIST: That can feel even more desperate then, and an investment. Like that would have happened with the first baby too? Now it's you're carrying a load for two right away. [0:27:09]
THERAPIST: It was after you, okay. Do you know how long after?
THERAPIST: Do you know if she was trying to have a baby?
THERAPIST: You know about it because she told you about it years later?
THERAPIST: But you had to know about it then too, in some way. Kids pick up these things. Even toddlers, even if you didn't know with words.
THERAPIST: Did you say you didn't get in the show, like a specific one you've been trying to get into?
THERAPIST: What? What are you saying?
THERAPIST: Sad?
THERAPIST: I wonder if aggravated is easier to feel than sad? It feels like there's so much sadness [inaudible] aggravated.
THERAPIST: Well especially if your anger is about feeling shut out, or feeling like an outsider, or feeling being encroached upon. Or just not being able to be left alone peacefully and attended to peacefully. I think there's also as you're having those experiences right now, emotional experiences about things happening out there that you're starting to be aware of really aren't quite about those things. There's a lot of sadness that wells up next to the aggravation because it's, you're aware of this having been happened already. That you were feeling this as a kid. [0:35:15]
THERAPIST: Even me. Sometimes you show up here and it feels like, I'm not taking care of you. I made appointments too close together. Starting you a couple of minutes late even I'm failing you. [0:36:19]
THERAPIST: If it sounds like it's boiling down to the feeling that wow really at the end of the day I'm alone. There's not really anybody that's gonna be there.
THERAPIST: Were you feeling that here Monday? Do you remember anything about being here? There I started [inaudible] someway?
THERAPIST: What was the dream, what's so important?
THERAPIST: A man or a woman?
THERAPIST: Do you remember more about the feeling, and how you were thinking about dreams? Or part of the dreams?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Were you sad?
THERAPIST: My guess would be a lot. you don't entirely know all of it but it's very evocative. I mean for one, just the progression from friends with NBA players, getting checks in the mail to driving, and sleepy driving and watching Netflix. It's like it sort of feels like it's coming from big dreams to kind of ordinary experience? And then you run into a friend, and she's going to medical school and you're saying that's good for you but you're not.
THERAPIST: But it's not NBA and big checks either.
THERAPIST: It just sounds more real.
THERAPIST: Do you mean that in your dreams? Or do you mean literally? Waking.
THERAPIST: I wouldn't say so.
THERAPIST: I mean it's such a metaphor right? I don't know.
THERAPIST: Where's I'm thinking the struggle of being in the driver seat, and driving. Forward initiative. You figure in that space that you feel like you're in charge of, but then it feels like it veers off and it gets confusing or gets sticky again.
THERAPIST: You're not an agent with initiative and clarity.
THERAPIST: Till tomorrow.
THERAPIST: 310.
THERAPIST: Thanks. Why are you smiling?
THERAPIST: Why are you smiling?
THERAPIST: I always think there's something.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: [00:03:02] Yeah, I think that's what I was hearing a little bit in your dream. Like, the movement from the NBA star and checks in the mail of $99,000 to, like, your actual life. And yet, you added that it was beautiful at the same time. That you're driving around...
THERAPIST: It wasn't just depressing.
THERAPIST: It's such a huge change, [Brian] (ph). What you are thinking about and bearing, even if there's a lot of intense feeling, like yesterday...aggravation. It doesn't translate into getting shut down. You actually can remain thinking with curiosity in your mind and you still go about your life. It's not really affecting your functioning. It, I mean, there's been a lot of change.
THERAPIST: That's such a shift from yesterday, too.
THERAPIST: Dramatically.
THERAPIST: [00:07:02] I wonder what...does something come to mind in what changed that?
THERAPIST: There's also somehow an image of this quirky guy just being himself...who's a poet. That feels really positive.
THERAPIST: You don't look at him and see the outsider who's, you know, look at this schlep...what he has to do for a living or something?
THERAPIST: It's such a...when you think about different parts of yourself and how you can experience sort of seeing parts of you in one way or another in that kind of thing here. [00:09:09] It's a more benign and positive...
THERAPIST: Almost like they get to see you just being yourself.
THERAPIST: Who you are right now in life.
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Very creative.
THERAPIST: Very creative.
THERAPIST: It's anxiety from your childhood that they don't last.
THERAPIST: I'm just wondering what it was like to see me yesterday. You know, you were aggravated sitting out there. Do I know it's 53 after or 50 after. You know? Coming here, being irritated, and telling me you are. [00:15:01] You think that's happening here. That's new. You know?
THERAPIST: And so what did you feel like after having said that?
THERAPIST: Yeah, or even here.
THERAPIST: Although, it might also be a (inaudible at 00:16:01). In the moment, it is what you're aggravated about. You know? It might...
THERAPIST: It might be connected to some earlier, bigger, deeper trauma, but how understandable for you to have some feeling about my running a few minutes late.
THERAPIST: You know what I mean? Like...and it feels like you were very real about it. That isn't...
THERAPIST: You just want to be here.
THERAPIST: You know, for the record, this is on the side. [00:17:00] But you know, if I'm running a few minutes late, I will always go over.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: So, but even still, you're going to be a feeling of you're here, you're ready.
THERAPIST: Did you have a mind that I would know you'd have feelings about being aggravated?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm wondering do you imagine that I knew that...a piece of what you'd be feeling about it?
THERAPIST: Like, I had no idea.
THERAPIST: See, I actually knew before you came in that you'd have feelings about it.
THERAPIST: I think the week before, it had come up on that particular...it was Thursday. When I had, like, sort of back-to-back sessions. So know when you...I knew that ending right at 50 in the preceding session, I actually waited a minute or two to open the door and give you that space. I think last week it felt really abrupt to you. But...
THERAPIST: I guess I'm hearing that. Because [00:20:01] I think one of the things that happens for you when you...there's a kind of frustration of the system. Like, frustrations of the relationship system of your childhood. I don't think you had, inside you, the experience that...when your mom couldn't be there for some reason, or when she didn't get something in your art or your poetry or your music, that she really was still trying to think about you and wanted to. Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: It is just...she's just not there. And you go back and when that experience gets repeated, because it was repeated. It's not that that...it's not that it didn't happen or that you're making it up. I was running a few minutes late. That really happened.
THERAPIST: So when little traumas like that happen, I think it feels even more traumatic because you were left with the feeling of being totally alone [00:21:00] in your fantasy.
THERAPIST: That no one cares.
THERAPIST: Yes. That you're not that important.
THERAPIST: Which is so different than you as a kid, knowing, for example...this is just a story, but...when Mommy goes to work, she has to work, and maybe probably wants to, but she really, really misses me, too.
THERAPIST: That doesn't feel like that's a part of this story. That you know...you knew she had you in mind.
THERAPIST: Even when she couldn't be there for whatever reason.
THERAPIST: Has she been able to describe it about her own father?
THERAPIST: Like that with you.
THERAPIST: And you said, what, oh, callous.
THERAPIST: I love you, but here's the script of who you're going to be.
THERAPIST: Because this is who I need you to be.
THERAPIST: It's another level of just being left so alone with your actual self. [00:27:00] No one knew it. And I think that's what it might have felt like in a really small subtle way, sitting out there waiting. Like, that "I'm alone, it doesn't really matter. I don't really matter. No one knows how this feels to me." (pause) [00:28:00]
THERAPIST: Well, that's what you were fed, is that shitty feelings don't happen to other people, or especially beautiful people.
THERAPIST: As though there is a place where a possibility there is a kind of perfection of experience.
THERAPIST: That was their fantasy.
THERAPIST: I ran into a really cheesy quote a couple hours ago that said something like, "Serenity is not the absence of turmoil, but the capacity to find peace and calm amidst turmoil."
THERAPIST: I think that's what you're talking about.
THERAPIST: It keeps you sleeping while trying to drive.
THERAPIST: (laugh)
THERAPIST: [00:37:34] If you were without mirrors...live people mirrors seeing you and reflecting back to you. This is you. You're good at this. I see you. I see what you're good at. I'm proud of what you're good at. This is what you're showing. That you're recognized. [00:38:00] That it doesn't quite feel real.
THERAPIST: It's good to know what their experiences are and everything.
THERAPIST: There's so many ways that you've been without mirrors. [00:40:02] And even just thinking of just culturally. There's an (inaudible at 00:40:07) experience of being a child and the regrets that if, you know, is that worth a case where someone else...that they could find mirrors in peers?
THERAPIST: Kind of like that.
THERAPIST: To go find other mirrors, go find a family in New York City. It makes it ever more complicated, almost impossible. [00:41:00]
THERAPIST: With what you were leaving behind. Or at least was impossible. And being an only child without a sibling, at least where they can share their own mirror...their experiences of what's going on in the family some? Kind of have that between each other...you didn't have that. (pause) [00:42:00] So Monday?
THERAPIST: Monday at 10:00.
THERAPIST: I'm good.
THERAPIST: Like you're trusting it more?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: Which is already so much.
THERAPIST: Which is already so much.
THERAPIST: Just thinking again about your having not one but two areas of art that you're trying to make yourself pursue.
THERAPIST: English department where?
THERAPIST: Do you know what you would have for that degree?
THERAPIST: Well what would be left then to do?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You pay so much?
THERAPIST: But worth investigating?
THERAPIST: Even just to be tackling the problem of trying to figure out how to refinance...
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: It sounds like, at least it feels like you're less, feeling less deterred by the first no in a way?
THERAPIST: So it's not even a "no"?
THERAPIST: So, I mean, the metaphorical no is maybe deciding when you decide "oh that's not doable or not worth it," even if it's your decision it's a "no" to the reality of what it would take, which in the past might make you feel like "ah, that's it", throw your hands up, it's not worth it, it'll never happen.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And alone?
THERAPIST: It's like this outside other who has all the money and has all the power.
THERAPIST: Or you're not alone?
THERAPIST: You and millions of other people are trying to get...
THERAPIST: Like you feel pride about it?
THERAPIST: Like you see this very loving and patient side of her?
THERAPIST: But she's doing that?
THERAPIST: Or her son is?
THERAPIST: Or her son is?
THERAPIST: Making her realize....
THERAPIST: You saw your grandmother this weekend?
THERAPIST: Is that when you were noticing the change?
THERAPIST: Your uncle was over?
THERAPIST: Your house?
THERAPIST: I've heard of it.
THERAPIST: So you're grandmother is still living in her house right?
THERAPIST: So that's why I was kind of confused. You were saying your uncle came over to your mom's?
THERAPIST: Your mother will bring her to your house?
THERAPIST: Spend some time with?
THERAPIST: It's very sad.
THERAPIST: What's that like for you? I mean it's pretty serious.
THERAPIST: This turn (ph)?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: When you say it worries you?
THERAPIST: [This might sound a little dense] (ph) but worried that what? Worried that you'd cheat on Kelly?
THERAPIST: Or break up with her?
THERAPIST: So why?
THERAPIST: Why would that be being an asshole?
THERAPIST: Yeah, so it could be that but I don't know that tits are the same as being Assyrian, do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: I don't know if it is or it isn't..
THERAPIST: So you're worried that it'll be like any other thing where you could, just someone else who has something else on the list and that...
THERAPIST: I guess I do because I don't, again I know it still sounds dense, but I don't know exactly what you're describing, in other words are you thinking?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that you would move there and date that person then? Is that what you're saying?
THERAPIST: Without knowing in other words as you're having, as the fantasy of "uh oh that might happen". It's not like you're thinking and have a relationship with that person where either that person would move to the United States or...
THERAPIST: I know you're not using to me [taking the pole] (ph) but maybe it's not so bad? I mean so much of talking about this is your, it's just something else on the list and it could be with that but...[00:38:05]
THERAPIST: Right. Like what if that is actually really important to you?
THERAPIST: It goes so much beyond something superficial.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So maybe that's it. What if you did that and then you left or lost Kelly and then what if it didn't work out?
THERAPIST: If there were? There would be someone who you didn't know very well.
THERAPIST: So you don't know whether it would go anywhere beyond romantic entanglement.
THERAPIST: All of this, I guess all of what we're talking about and what I'm kind of poking into with the actual fantasy is, makes it feel like these are actually things we could talk about and get to know in advance of your being there. The way you're describing the fear is that you will end up somewhere and then do something without thought that you'll regret. That, but maybe there's room and space to think about what would that mean, what if that happened, what would it be about, where do you imagine it would go, what would you lose, what are the risks, you know? How important is that to you? Is it worth it? Is it just the fantasy? Do you actually know in your heart that being Assyrian, being other, the checklist of who you want is totally incompatible, so it'll be based on a fantasy rather than the reality of that person. Just seems like there's so much more to, so that when you go there you might actually be armed with a sense of if I do this, this will happen, if I do this, this will happen and you make a decision.
THERAPIST: That's why you're bringing it up.
THERAPIST: I wonder what just now, was it while I was talking? While you were talking?
THERAPIST: Something about what we were talking about?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:42:47] (pause)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: For?
THERAPIST: What in particular?
THERAPIST: That would kind of relate and capture some of your experience you mean?
THERAPIST: No I can, I think the author you'd have fun with and would be stimulating is Winnicott. The original thing...
THERAPIST: Playing and Reality, yeah.
THERAPIST: That book, basically anything by him.
THERAPIST: That book especially has, I mean it's a number, he wrote the papers individually and they just were compiled into a book.
THERAPIST: That book would be a place to start.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
THERAPIST: Jung.
THERAPIST: [Let's go in my book] (ph)
THERAPIST: But it might be, who knows, I'm not well read as much as...
THERAPIST: The others as Freud and Melanie Klein.
THERAPIST: She probably alluded to it in a number of her papers but it wasn't the center of her writing.
THERAPIST: Yeah the two mainlined after Freud were Freud's daughter Anna Freud and Melanie Klein and then they're two very different areas of theory developed.
THERAPIST: Kohut also wrote a lot on narcissism?
THERAPIST: Heinz Kohut.
THERAPIST: He's an American psychoanalyst from Chicago back in the sixties. (pause)
THERAPIST: I do, I mean it doesn't surprise me at all, I don't know that I would say that there's a specific, what you can call it cognitive dissonance, maybe in the cognitive literature but it feels like it sounds like anxiety. [00:47:35]
THERAPIST: But anxiety for a very particular reason, I don't, I mean you do know how quickly things are changing but I don't know if you know as we're....have compassion for how quickly things are changing inside you that this is, it's like if you've worn sunglasses that are red your whole life and that's all your used to seeing and suddenly you're taking them off and starting to see the world as it actually is, it's very disorienting. It can be bright and beautiful and good, it doesn't feel, like everything's all the same and it falls into this old, familiar group but new experience is anxiety provoking, for all people.
THERAPIST: Right? So if you're having even new experiences of yourself where you're not your old self and you find yourself even relating in a different way and thinking of yourself in a different way, it's foreign to you so there can be moment where it's like "who is this" and "where's this person come from?" [00:48:47]
THERAPIST: What I'd be curious though, that's why I ask you, I wonder when the more we can get specific about what happened moment by moment, when did the anxiety start in our conversation even? I would guess there's something even more that we can get at about what was the thing? Was it because we were arguing about something or I was disagreeing with you or I misunderstood you?
THERAPIST: What about that moment actually...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I also wondered if it was, we were starting to think about you having choice, like even about women. The way you started the conversation was "I'm worried this will happen", like I can't help myself, which is very, it's like being the passive...
THERAPIST: You know? You're at the whim of your desire of, even the fatalistic of the woman who walks in the door but to actually think "no we can think about this" and you could think ahead of time whether you want to do that or not.
THERAPIST: Even if it's tempting and right in front of you and everything you supposedly wanted. Maybe you don't want it cause you kind of know where that goes. [00:50:03]
THERAPIST: So to be, even a choice, even there, I think is another place of being totally disoriented.
THERAPIST: Like getting a refi on a mortgage, this way doesn't work so you go and figure out how else to make it work, it's just so different.
THERAPIST: Having agency. (pause) Thursday?
THERAPIST: 12:15.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You made it?
THERAPIST: You made it?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Maybe they're both going on?
THERAPIST: Mm hm. How much are you sleeping when you say...? It sounds like you're afraid you're sleeping too much but you're not sure that you are.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it's not that you're going to bed at even eleven and just sleeping until eleven?
THERAPIST: For a little while you were saying you were going to be a little earlier...
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: That's the earliest you would go to bed?
THERAPIST: So you're not, it's not oversleeping?
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There are occasional people who are night owls, like, naturally their body rhythm works at it's highest level, staying up late and waking up late. Statistically though that's a very rare type so I don't know...it also sounds like you're kind of trying to figure out "is that just who I am?" Or is there something, actually would it be better for you if you went to bed earlier? Like does that...
THERAPIST: You don't feel any better?
THERAPIST: You hadn't felt better then? It's not, you were starting to say you felt groggier if you go to bed later and wake up later.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: It's probably just being hard on yourself.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. And it makes it hard to kind of figure out is it better for you or is it just your guilt?
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Wait, if it's functional time, it's very different than if it's staying up because...
THERAPIST: So is it not working for you in any way?
THERAPIST: It doesn't feel like there's a problem with it.
THERAPIST: History?
THERAPIST: But there aren't' any problems you kind of actuate (ph)? It's not that you're not getting your work done or?
THERAPIST: Or you're tired the whole day?
THERAPIST: So that...
THERAPIST: I guess I, I still feel like I'm sitting on a fence, thinking about this with you, that it feels like there could be elements of it, could be, I don't know if there are, that are related to, you know when we were talking about food, just even....The deficits in good, basic body self-care, you're trying not having a cup of coffee and then a pastry and then...was it tuna fish and pita bread and olives or something at night? (laughs) [00:11:18] Something like that?
THERAPIST: Which is a little more...
THERAPIST: A little more nutrition?
THERAPIST: Just even that is an example of actually, that's not a place where we want to work on being less hard on you, as much as like, you need the nutrition.
THERAPIST: There's something, like even just basic self-care gets hard, so sleep could be the same thing, like are there ways it's hard to take care of your sleep needs too, like nutrition needs or is this related to this is just you, as an artist and it is an alternative lifestyle but it works for you and how much are you hard on yourself because it's not what your parents were or the only thing they could deem...
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: On average...
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: There's not the space (ph), you know, there's a different priority?
THERAPIST: They don't know better or...?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: It's such a, when people look down (ph), it's such a thing to say to you, why would someone want to help you....
THERAPIST: I know.
THERAPIST: Uh huh, uh huh.
THERAPIST: It's a place where there's such a gap...
THERAPIST: Of course.
THERAPIST: You probably will feel that way one day.
THERAPIST: Culture also?
THERAPIST: It just doesn't fit in to...
THERAPIST: ...our world? That people would just help each other.
THERAPIST: It's almost not...
THERAPIST: Just layers and layers and layers of gap...
THERAPIST: You're fleshing out all different kinds of reasons you feel so apart...
THERAPIST: It's very lonely again, it's back to...
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: When you say "it extricates me" what...(inaudible)
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: No wondering... (ph)
THERAPIST: It's not personal though.
THERAPIST: It's not a personally rejected loneliness.
THERAPIST: About themselves...
THERAPIST: (inaudible)[00:23:07]
THERAPIST: No...I understand.
THERAPIST: Tomorrow we're doing 10:40?
THERAPIST: Going to the earlier time, 10:40 just tomorrow and then after that 11:30 on Friday's until March 1st.
THERAPIST: Does that sound okay?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Alright. See you tomorrow morning.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at [00:00:14]) the holidays.
THERAPIST: Ranging
THERAPIST: Who, your company?
THERAPIST: What does more actually mean to you?
THERAPIST: How much?
THERAPIST: What? Like, how you feel the next day?
THERAPIST: And six is unusual that night (ph)?
THERAPIST: Four or five?
THERAPIST: Every night that amount?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's a change from earlier in the semester-some? You're saying.
THERAPIST: Which can make it hard if you're a part of you is thinking I don't want to do that all the time, if everyone you know is doing it.
THERAPIST: Hard not to.
THERAPIST: Even one drink can affect people's sleeping. It literally reduces the amount of (Overlapping Voices) certain (inaudible at [00:06:10])
THERAPIST: But even that night, you won't come home and drink.
THERAPIST: How much would your dad drink? You always refer to (Overlapping Voices) (inaudible at [00:07:47])
THERAPIST: Just cigarettes.
THERAPIST: Wasn't an issue. [00:08:05]
THERAPIST: And in your family, you haven't -
THERAPIST: Alcoholism and then -
THERAPIST: And you don't drink hard liquor and wine, (Overlapping Voices) too much?
THERAPIST: It's funny, because it's another area where it feels like it could be either ways it's still hard to take care of you. Drink more water and not drink as much in general. And, it also feels like it's a place where you're harder on yourself than you necessarily have to be at the same time. You know, like -
THERAPIST: (Overlapping Voices) that it's been crazy,
THERAPIST: So, alcohol even the scene of alcohol means you're going to bed later too. The combination -
THERAPIST: being up late and (Overlapping Voices) (inaudible at [00:11:08])
THERAPIST: Have you ever been able to fall asleep without drinking at ten? nine thirty, ten? [00:12:05] has that ever (Overlapping Voices) happened?
THERAPIST: You're whole life? I mean at least since you were 16?
THERAPIST: (Overlapping Voices) It does?
THERAPIST: You know, most sleep researchers say that every hour before midnight counts double for hours after midnight (Overlapping Voices) in the average body rhythm.
THERAPIST: When it's dark, I mean that -
THERAPIST: that if the body falls asleep as it gets darker. [00:13:05]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at [00:13:08])
THERAPIST: It may not work that way for you. (Overlapping Voices) It may not be what your body needs to do.
THERAPIST: But it's such a trend to stay there.
THERAPIST: I'm suddenly reminded of just thinking about your being home as a latch key kid and the beige carpet, and we were talking about I think it was us that were talking about Nosferatu where that You started to say that because I don't think that You said because I don't think I'd seen it on television, and then you said on the other hand, no one was home (Overlapping Voices) monitoring me. So maybe it did. I wonder, you know, the sort of free range, watching the TV, home by yourself. There's something about there's not an internalized monitoring presence saying time to go to bed Brian, (Overlapping Voices) or not good for you Brian.
THERAPIST: At night? [00:15:49]
THERAPIST: Well even at night, you're saying for a long time, it was very hard to be (Overlapping Voices) (inaudible at [00:16:06])
THERAPIST: I wonder if it is hard to just close your eyes and be alone. Because as people are drifting off to sleep, that first however long it takes you, you're alone with your thoughts and -
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: I mean I've heard you say you often fall asleep with the TV on, but you're saying it feels like you have to the TV or the radio has to be on.
THERAPIST: Or else?
THERAPIST: Or else what happens?
THERAPIST: How about when you fall asleep when you're with a woman?
THERAPIST: You don't have to have the TV or -
THERAPIST: You don't have to have the TV on (Overlapping Voices) or the radio or anything like that?
THERAPIST: That was my thought about the radio or television, it's company. [00:19:37] In its own way, it's kind of like a soothing other (Overlapping Voices) presence.
THERAPIST: And so if you're able to do that then (Overlapping Voices) and it's someone you feel comfortable with.
THERAPIST: Get close.
THERAPIST: Why?
THERAPIST: It's almost like maybe your mom's hair her hair, that tactile experience is some kind of transitional, peaceful space (Overlapping Voices) where it's soothe there's something very soothing and calming and kind of regulating, and quieting. Almost like having a blankie. I mean that -
THERAPIST: You didn't have Did you have a blanket (Overlapping Voices) or lucky stuffed animal?
THERAPIST: That was important?
THERAPIST: Some kids, I think kids who are more relationally attuned and sensitive and the body At first the body of the mother in some ways skin, hair, something like that is actually sometimes the blanket doesn't cut it. (Overlapping Voices) it's got to be even closer (Overlapping Voices) for a while.
THERAPIST: It's funny, even touchy feely has a kind of there's kind of a connotation about being a little (Pause) sappy and negative. (Overlapping Voices) You know?
THERAPIST: Like you feel alive and comfortable and physical contact. I mean that's some people live more in that space feeling really, really at home, and some people it feels uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: Well it's a it's a layer you've always said you're a sexual person and (Overlapping Voices) enjoy sex.
THERAPIST: That hugging someone when you're saying hello is another place where you really feel alive (Overlapping Voices) (inaudible at [00:26:23]) and comfortable.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was just thinking about (inaudible at [00:28:47]) I think there's this paradox about areas where you can express yourself with your body. Express loving, feelings so openly but not with words.
THERAPIST: It becomes more dangerous with words.
THERAPIST: It's interesting, because with words it feels like there's more possibility lingering with rejection somehow and hurt. You know, just misunderstanding.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at [00:30:43]) your coat getting stuck on the door, yesterday (Overlapping Voices) (inaudible at [00:30:48])
THERAPIST: Just is this moment where there's this action happening that doesn't have words yet, that may or may not have meaning, but (Overlapping Voices) your coat didn't want to leave. (Laughing)
THERAPIST: You always said, I don't that you're not a believer, so much, in telling people how you feel, but you will show them.
THERAPIST: There's some action, body (inaudible at [00:31:34]) (Overlapping Voices) feels more comfortable, (Overlapping Voices) less vulnerable.
THERAPIST: It is and it isn't though. I mean, to me that it fits right in with what we're talking about; that your body has always been the familiar zone of expressing something, whether it's sex, whether it's a symptom, that the body is speaking something that you aren't maybe don't have words for yet.
THERAPIST: I mean, you said about alcohol, for example, then you don't alcohol and sex, you don't get to think. You don't have to think. That there this bodily expression is an expression of something without having to think about it too much. Like a psychosomatic symptom, (Overlapping Voices) it's (inaudible at [00:33:32]) in the body, but if we start to sort of pull it up, what's it really about. If we as I think about it, usually the actual symptom starts to fade.
THERAPIST: You could be drinking more because you're thinking more (inaudible at [00:33:53]). You've been saying that. (Overlapping Voices) You've been thinking a lot. This is That's what this is kind of designed to do.
THERAPIST: Or maybe that's something healthy that you're actually (Overlapping Voices) wanting to get out and be social.
THERAPIST: Maybe that's a metaphor for something. [00:36:52] (Pause) [00:38:09] Where are you?
THERAPIST: Where'd you just go in your head?
THERAPIST: Where you getting it just now, the feeling?
THERAPIST: When'd you notice it yesterday? Do you know? You didn't seem like you were feeling it when you got here.
THERAPIST: Where you feel specifically short of breath?
THERAPIST: Why do you hate that?
THERAPIST: With even I mean it's breathing. Think of how basic that is. How you could feel self-conscious about breathing. It's sad in a way. I'm just thinking about you as a kid somehow. What about your sense of yourself can carry over to the most basic -
THERAPIST: Everybody breathes, right? I mean, it's like you can't do anything if you're not breathing, and it makes a little noise.
THERAPIST: It's one thing if you have a cold, and then it might but you're saying this has sort of even when things are feeling ok.
THERAPIST: Like this image somehow of your presence getting too loud and big, and somehow a turn off. There's a fantasy of that somehow behind it.
THERAPIST: That can happen, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it actually could be happening (Overlapping Voices) Oh, yeah, totally.
THERAPIST: Well if you're working to try to sort of muffle normal breathing, (Overlapping Voices) then you're chest gets tightened and then you actually do lose air, and then (gasps), you have to inhale and it might even be louder and, you know.
THERAPIST: The whole thing just gets dis-regulated, and it's just from feeling uncomfortable being yourself.
THERAPIST: Monday.
THERAPIST: Fine.
THERAPIST: Ten o'clock?
THERAPIST: (Overlapping Voices) Right? Is our permanent time for then, 12:50 Thursday, and then now Fridays now are at 11:30.
THERAPIST: And then (I [00:43:50]) next week, the following week, we won't meet Monday. Just Monday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: She knows you.
THERAPIST: Well, even for your family to have time, be making peace, saying goodbye.
THERAPIST: She's enjoying...
THERAPIST: Hmm?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST Huh. [00:09:59]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, what would make it not okay?
THERAPIST: Because it's hard to bring up.
THERAPIST: So this is your aunt's husband and daughter were there?
THERAPIST: And you all don't talk about your aunt with them? [00:11:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Even in your mother bringing it up was different for her?
THERAPIST: Yeah. (PAUSE) Well, it's even so different just publicly putting it out there.
THERAPIST: Oh, I didn't know that.
THERAPIST: Is it sadness?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, that's what I was thinking. Even for your cousin, for your uncle, for you, it's new to imagine talking about it could actually feel comforting.
THERAPIST: And the funny thing... What I thought was well sometimes my cousin brings up my dad and I find that... It makes me a little uncomfortable but not really. It's comforting. She has so many nice memories of my dad and, you know, she'll, you know... But, yeah, it's hard. I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's hard to feel sad or...
THERAPIST: What's so bad about those beings?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: In you, probably, even in the way you're describing your uncles being sad about your...
THERAPIST: The fact that you just said, "Because, in a way, even not talking about it shows how much you care..." I just, I wonder if there's something that also just feels really too vulnerable to have your sadness known or seen.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: Oh.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I wonder if you have guilt.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Oh, you were living here.
THERAPIST: And had gone to San Diego for the day.
THERAPIST: Was it Saturday?
THERAPIST: Why?
THERAPIST: And you... There were no signs.
THERAPIST: He wasn't sick or anything beforehand?
THERAPIST: He had hurt his arm on the job?
THERAPIST: This was the half brother?
THERAPIST: I remember this.
THERAPIST: Your dad was in the range and given what was going on with behavioral things, it's not shocking once you learn what happens but it's also... It doesn't sound like there were immediate signs...
THERAPIST: ...in any way.
THERAPIST: It also could have not happened...
THERAPIST: ...for 10 to 20, 30 years. [00:25:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Your, this uncle was there when it happened you're saying?
THERAPIST: So he wasn't with your father.
THERAPIST: Oh.
THERAPIST: He was at the diner?
THERAPIST: Just... That's the story?
THERAPIST: He slumped over? Not in pain or not...
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: But he was out beforehand.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What did they do after?
THERAPIST: Did they call 911? Did they...
THERAPIST: There wasn't a chance though.
THERAPIST: It's not even like she made some ambiguous statement.
THERAPIST: Well, with your dad the relationship was good and lost. That could still happen.
THERAPIST: This anxiety, even when it's going well...
THERAPIST: But it's...
THERAPIST: No?
THERAPIST: What time was it?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: The scene you described, just walking up and opening the door...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:41:55) walking in and seeing the faces on your family and knowing something was very, very wrong. [00:42:01]
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Were people worried about you?
THERAPIST: ...lost in the picture.
THERAPIST: It's almost like you're not even there.
THERAPIST: You're telling the story of the experience of this.
THERAPIST: It's like you're a fly on the wall watching it happen.
THERAPIST: It's really weird because you're his child.
THERAPIST: Like a...
THERAPIST: Right. Not that they shouldn't be having immense amounts of feelings. But, in a way, your feelings should come first.
THERAPIST: Maybe you and your mother...
THERAPIST: ...as the two most...
THERAPIST: ...affected people.
THERAPIST: A lot of people in her generation...
THERAPIST: It sounds like aunts, uncles attending to her.
THERAPIST: See you Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You too.
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: Just looking for parking?
THERAPIST: Oh, my gosh.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
THERAPIST: You were saying you just now feel good enough.
THERAPIST: Where does it take you in your mind, having a cold? What does that mean?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Huh. And in the dream, you recognized it, one of those.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 07:10) of your mother.
THERAPIST: That's maybe a piece of why he got in.
THERAPIST: That the particular sequence of why the unrecognizable song that then you recognize, and why it's "Mother."
THERAPIST: Or "Working Class Hero."
THERAPIST: Or both.
THERAPIST: It wasn't sounding like it was filled with angst.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:08:49]
THERAPIST: Maybe it's like finding a mother who you like an admire. A mother...
THERAPIST: with strengths and weaknesses. Like you're seeing her taking care of her own mother as maybe that's it's good for her.
THERAPIST: Maybe you're seeing something you would admire in her instead of just feel like it's only her masochism.
THERAPIST: It's a more complex view.
THERAPIST: Of just the person.
THERAPIST: What?
THERAPIST: Why do you apologize?
THERAPIST: You do?
THERAPIST: So it's the germ spread?
THERAPIST: That's funny I noticed how much of the face you made of what you're apologizing for. It's like the germ side of it versus when you say cover your mouth. That could be germs or that could be it's rude. Or is it mucous?
THERAPIST: Is it saliva?
THERAPIST: Is it something about that part of -
THERAPIST: bodily fluids.
THERAPIST: How about when you were sick as a kid?
THERAPIST: Yeah. What do you remember about it?
THERAPIST: Do you know oh, yeah, it'll go away. It's like -
THERAPIST: of course it will. Why would it -
THERAPIST: you have to say that?
THERAPIST: Just anxiety.
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: It's health.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That makes sense.
THERAPIST: The doctor's lying?
THERAPIST: And that the doctors were lying?
THERAPIST: Misdiagnosis.
THERAPIST: Yeah, okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You'd already be dead. [00:24:58]
THERAPIST: If it's alcohol at night -
THERAPIST: You name it, it's -
THERAPIST: What I was saying about is it's like a combination of both telling yourself there are things in your control that are not in your control, that actually in reality are not, like getting cancer.
THERAPIST: There are things that cause cancer, but stress doesn't cause cancer, mostly.
THERAPIST: We can make it worse.
THERAPIST: That don't get cancer. And there are people who are going to get that same cancer who don't ever touch a -
THERAPIST: asbestos.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. But you get these extremes of either things are in your control that probably really aren't, like eating cilantro is not going to probably prevent you from -
THERAPIST: getting cancer, if that's what you're going to die of.
THERAPIST: But it's a fantasy that if you do all these things somehow that you could save yourself. And then there are these places where there are things your dad could have done that might have helped, that actually in reality are good things to try to not do.
THERAPIST: That's a place where there's actually something she could do that -
THERAPIST: It's pretty proven to be quite effective.
THERAPIST: But that's the point. These things that are in your control that should, but they don't do, and the things that aren't that they tell you to (inaudible at 30:23).
THERAPIST: But wouldn't take the cholesterol.
THERAPIST: Does she eat healthfully?
THERAPIST: The way you're describing sounds like -
THERAPIST: When I ask is she, is she healthy, it sounds like she's almost too healthy.
THERAPIST: And the way you're describing it, she's eats like a bird.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I mean maybe what you're having is not as nutritious but -
THERAPIST: both what you're describing for yourself and your mother sounds really kind of restrictive.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. I hear that. I hear that.
THERAPIST: Scattered.
THERAPIST: You don't eat much. From what you were describing to me -
THERAPIST: It's really -
THERAPIST: I mean, and the fact that you say she'd have pizza, she'd indulge.
THERAPIST: It makes it like -
THERAPIST: I mean, that's not a big deal to a lot of people.
THERAPIST: But it feels like it's really -
THERAPIST: Ha.
THERAPIST: You did? [00:38:00]
THERAPIST: It's really, really health conscious.
THERAPIST: I mean, even for -
THERAPIST: for that generation?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And maybe some. Some does, but at an extreme, you know.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. It certainly explains how much guilt there is when you say you ate at McDonalds. It's like you're just dripping with guilt to think what it's not that great for you but is it that bad when it happens?
THERAPIST: And then one on Friday, so it works?
THERAPIST: All right.
THERAPIST: (laughing) [00:42:03]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at)
THERAPIST: Bye.
THERAPIST: It's sort of, it's hard to define what tough actually means, right? And that's what we are asking. It's not a have to on my end, but it is something we do bring up and have a conversation about every year so, because things change for people. So I don't know if it feels like anything has changed about your circumstances now versus when we started doing the 20?
THERAPIST: So let's keep it what it is for the time being. If something changes you'll let me know?
THERAPIST: I also know you have still the outstanding balance I don't know if you look at that every month or not or. If that's hard to look at.
THERAPIST: I know things are stretched thin right now, your car. Is it hard for me to even bring that up?
THERAPIST: I have continued flexibility about that balance but I'm also remiss if I don't ask you about it from time to time just to make sure it's on our radar screen.
THERAPIST: It sometimes takes on meaning. Money can mean something or avoiding money can mean something. Our task is to figure out what's comfortable for both of us and bring it up if there's something that starts to grow uncomfortable on my end as well as on your end.
THERAPIST: I feel comfortable enough with my [inaudible]. (pause) And thank you for your message. I got your follow up.
THERAPIST: Looks like I deflated you.
THERAPIST: Just adding to the pile then?
THERAPIST: What's going on?
THERAPIST: And having panic attacks.
THERAPIST: About not feeling well, specifically?
THERAPIST: You sounded pretty awful on the phone when the [inaudible] kicked in. Under the weather.
THERAPIST: I can, it's in your voice still.
THERAPIST: You mean grinding at night? Is that what you're trying to say? [0:06:14]
THERAPIST: Will what? Pop or hurt?
THERAPIST: So it hurt worse, but not just like sore throat you're saying.
THERAPIST: So it's not like you're throwing up or something.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: It's so different than how you were feeling on Thursday even, last week.
THERAPIST: It's also the first time we haven't met for a whole week since starting this.
THERAPIST: it just makes me wonder if also
THERAPIST: At least in the mix of things. Even if it's just that we missed the opportunity to catch what's going on a little sooner. [0:10:35]
THERAPIST: I wonder what it was like not to be here for a week.
THERAPIST: You do sound like the thing that's descended on top of not feeling well is a tremendous amount of anxiety, this week. For probably a number of different reasons that are all coalescing, like your grandmother's health failing, and then yourself also simply coincidentally not feeling well. I feel like of all the things that could add a little trigger for you about the kind of anxieties that get kicked up around someone potentially dying. Around someone being there and not being there. [0:12:05]
THERAPIST: It snowballs inside. When even things like you felt really kind of ordinary and in control about that are stressful, it's not that they are not stressful, like how to pay off loans or a mortgage.
THERAPIST: Start to take on a really different feel to them. [0:13:07] (40 second pause)
THERAPIST: This dream you've been having with your wife, she's in danger is that?
THERAPIST: What happens specifically? What are you, what were the exchanges?
THERAPIST: You mean getting her into a home?
THERAPIST: it's horrible.
THERAPIST: You talk as if she's being neglected.
THERAPIST: Well that's what I think I'm wondering about your identification with her if there's some part of this that is like your, the indignation is actually about here. How you were left alone.
THERAPIST: What was it like? [0:24:13]
THERAPIST: Is he her legal guardian?
THERAPIST: Well he is the guardian.
THERAPIST: I don't know exactly, I mean they're unusual circumstances. He's the legal guardian, he's more responsible? I don't know that, I can't imagine that he would get thrown in jail or anything like that. (pause)
THERAPIST: Boy she sounds scared too.
THERAPIST: And there's no one sitting there keeping her company. Calming her down. You know I know you've talked to your uncle, but what. The intermediary path between kind of reporting it anonymously and what you've talked about before I wonder about a more serious conversation directly with your uncle. What would that be like to say I want to let you know I'm concerned enough about her safety both psychologically and physically that if we don't do something now I feel like I need to call someone and make sure that happens.
THERAPIST: Or else what would happen?
THERAPIST: And so what then if that feels too intense towards him, what about going for coffee and saying we need to talk about this I'm so worried.
THERAPIST: You have?
THERAPIST: We've gotta do something tomorrow, how can I help it happen by tomorrow? What will he say? [0:28:10]
THERAPIST: Some ordinary.
THERAPIST: So he's having a hard time accepting that she's moving to a more childlike place.
THERAPIST: And he being the adult.
THERAPIST: You do really feel stuck.
THERAPIST: Do you think your uncle knows that?
THERAPIST: So sad. [0:32:26] (pause)
THERAPIST: It's a very familiar place for you. And especially at night I think I was thinking that too when you've been in this particular emotional space around your grandmother before, and then moved out of it, into a very different perspective on your mother being an adult and making her own choices. And you uncle being an adult making his own choices, and that you don't have to actually be responsible for both of them. Where you let some of it go. It's not that you still didn't feel terribly sad. Grief, but there something that feels like getting drawn back into. [0:34:51]
THERAPIST: And it sounds like it stretches into like something more than just care. Like that there's something you get wrapped up in.
THERAPIST: It's old stuff that gets pulled into it.
THERAPIST: Tomorrow? At 11:30?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Good change.
THERAPIST: I wonder what unique about when you say maybe it is not being here. That could mean a lot of different things. Like the actual impact of the distance and separation could be a number of different things I wonder what it.
THERAPIST: Which I actually think you are able to do often on your own even. Ease anxiety.
THERAPIST: All of those at once and then not being here.
THERAPIST: But she's 70.
THERAPIST: And a grandparent.
THERAPIST: Yeah I was thinking that when you said it's unusual to have a 70-year-old taking care of a 92-year-old. On the one hand you could think, oh your poor 70-year-old mother. On the other hand you think, wow we have a 70-year-old taking care of a 92-year-old.
THERAPIST: In a way the place you found yourself in that I think you thought you'd step outside it again yesterday into today. Sounds like a kind of crisis of aloneness. A feeling of being terribly, terribly alone.
THERAPIST: Cause you come out and you say wait I realize I'm not alone in this in a way. Like lots of other people have student loans or debt, or you know. You're not the only one. You're mother and grandmother are still alive, and you're mother is alive and kicking at 70. That there is actually a having, but there is something, there's something about that crisis of being alone that I think dates way back for you, or else it wouldn't come and be so powerful in the here and now. [0:10:45]
THERAPIST: And being loved. Seemed to have known for a long timed. You know that's what you're referring to in childhood. And I just kept thinking about we could have been talking about you with the feelings that were coming out so powerfully about your grandmother. You know even that you said she's like a kid. If there's this kid that's being neglected and who is scared and alone, and no one is stepping up to take care of her or him.
THERAPIST: Not in the way she needs.
THERAPIST: You knew what it was like to be scared at night as a little kid.
THERAPIST: It starts to sound kind of fear based.
THERAPIST: It could even be a very painful place to be.
THERAPIST: And to your point yesterday, it could mean that temporarily it might feel like a relief to get back in the place of this week, and oddly it's old and familiar and doesn't necessitate moving forward into arenas you've never been in before.
THERAPIST: It's a good question though. The fact that it's specifically indignation. What is old in that? You're very protective of her.
THERAPIST: Like what? What do you remember specifics?
THERAPIST: Between them? You're saying.
THERAPIST: When you said that to your grandmother if anything happens to your dad, what was your idea about what would happen to him? Where is the fantasy in that?
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: And when you say, when you say that to your grandmother you're saying like you're stressing him out? Is that what you're meaning?
THERAPIST: So you actually felt like having a pretty concrete idea that he might die of something like that, have a heart attack.
THERAPIST: In other words you're not saying your grandmother some if you hurt him.
THERAPIST: You're just meaning if you stress him out enough
THERAPIST: That you're doing him in essentially. I mean that's already enough of an idea that his life, that he was fragile. It's really interesting. [0:22:40]
THERAPIST: Towards your mom? The whole family?
THERAPIST: Why were they singled out? Do you know?
THERAPIST: Like anti-Republican, anti-conservative?
THERAPIST: And were they more conservative?
THERAPIST: Huh, really?
THERAPIST: And prejudice? [0:25:38]
THERAPIST: I didn't think that, what do you mean by that? Like even more Republican?
THERAPIST: Okay, okay.
THERAPIST: You're more liberal, they're more conservative. Your parents you're saying though had different political inclinations than your average Assyrians?
THERAPIST: Just Assyrian stuff.
THERAPIST: Uh hmm.
THERAPIST: So she had some kind of realistic. She was realistic about it.
THERAPIST: But the reason your mom's family was against the
THERAPIST: That's complicated. [0:28:37]
THERAPIST: Now I understand your comment to your grandmother.
THERAPIST: But during important years for your development.
THERAPIST: In their lives maybe it's a you know little phase, but in yours it's not just a little phase.
THERAPIST: You were witness to it, and you were part of it for a long time.
THERAPIST: In a way, this word may be to strong, but it's almost like they get a little bullied.
THERAPIST: So no wonder you're protective, it's just in you right now. Protect your mother. And it can feel like her taking care of your grandmother is her being bullied. It might be, but it might not be. And that's what you're still trying to.
THERAPIST: Were you scared for her when you were little?
THERAPIST: Not in the same way as you were for your dad.
THERAPIST: It's interesting. It sounds like you have both your mother and your father in you.
THERAPIST: Cause on the one hand who cares, let's come together and not make such a big deal. The other side of you feels very passionate and is involved in the debate. [0:32:47]
THERAPIST: Yeah. You were really upset at that point.
THERAPIST: Wow!
THERAPIST: How old were you when this?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: So that changed things too.
THERAPIST: I'm sort of taken aback by your strength of voice and conviction at this time. Where you are shy and sensitive, but you're not exactly wilting away in internal distress. You're being very direct, and clear.
THERAPIST: You met the other side [inaudible] It kind of sounds a like traumatic the whole debate to be going on like this for year after year.
THERAPIST: And you are the child. And sure you might becoming so vehement that you're giving your grandfather agita, but you are still the kid, and there aren't adults there saying everybody let's take a deep breath, and we love each other, and set some of this aside.
THERAPIST: Too late.
THERAPIST: I could see it. It's a lot to take in about what really happened, you know. Just to know even before your dad dying. This is new to me to understand, just on this storyline today, and there's so many more I'm sure to know. To know how hard even just day to day conversation was, how alone and desperate you felt. Even just in that. It's sort of like getting to know that about yourself, like that might. [0:40:49]
THERAPIST: I mean of course getting into will make you feel some of that more, but it is also helping us understand why for example the past few days have felt like that without awareness of why. This is the feeling. [0:41:44]
THERAPIST: Yes!
THERAPIST: I mean it's no wonder you could be at these places how dare you assholes take advantage? Get away from my mother. Leave us alone. Look at what you're putting us through.
THERAPIST: What?
THERAPIST: So sorry.
THERAPIST: I'm here. If Monday works for you, the 31st?
THERAPIST: The 31st. I'm not in on the 1st, and I'm here on the 31st.
THERAPIST: We're at 10?
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Another perspective is that anxiety could causing
THERAPIST: Just that fact even that it's gotten so much worse.
THERAPIST: This is in the middle of when you were pretty sick, that right then? The 23rd?
THERAPIST: Oh you were better by then?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. So much there.
THERAPIST: This is how you were?
THERAPIST: That was terrifying.
THERAPIST: It was cute.
THERAPIST: This meaning that you
THERAPIST: Two different sides at least. One is the fact that you're starting to dream more means I think you're starting to dream up your experience level. Have more access to your unconscious, that's a good thing. [0:13:07]
THERAPIST: What are your thoughts? And where does your mind go with that
THERAPIST: RET?
THERAPIST: RET? Does it start with R?
THERAPIST: But also out of this period and that's happy we had a break. We had a week without meeting, and I have to guess that in the same way that may have left you with more experienced by yourself. You know? That isn't metabolizable, that you get when you're here to come in and say this is what it is, and it becomes less scary. [0:17:04]
THERAPIST: It's scary.
THERAPIST: The TMJ just sounds like it's a manifestation of your anxiety to mirror its attention right? That's what happens. It's a very, very common side effect of anxiety, and anxieties specifically at night. [0:18:10]
THERAPIST: The gnats were in your mouth.
THERAPIST: I mean there maybe moving to the symptom focusing on your mouth right now. You know like why tension localizes in one place. Sometimes it means something.
THERAPIST: Even just a tad of what's coming out of you here in this process, I mean what are you speaking, what is there to be spoken? Are they gnats you want to get rid of? And this desperation to just get rid of everything that comes out, flushing it all down the sink, and maybe even flushing out the good with the bad, cause it's even worth just to get rid of the bad. [0:20:10]
THERAPIST: That could be what's making you anxious. Why are you putting yourself through this? Where's it heading.
THERAPIST: What's the fear, for you? Is it the same as what he's saying?
THERAPIST: That's a theme for you.
THERAPIST: I mean the feeling that somehow you're not man enough.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like that's become the definition of a real man, the stoic.
THERAPIST: This is a very particularly stereotyped image of what it is to be a man.
THERAPIST: And maybe idolized parts of him.
THERAPIST: What I can understand being really kind of complicated then about this process is. In one way it could feel like we're turning you into a woman.
THERAPIST: So it can feel like you're being your mother to be here. [0:29:15]
THERAPIST: I'm not saying it is. I'm saying there are times.
THERAPIST: That's what the mass reminded me of when you first were telling me of the feeling of your mother's side. Their neuroses, their stuff, the stuff you've been trying to get rid of and get away from your whole life. If you start to feel like, wait what if that's me too? Or what if that, what if I have to be that way here. Am I sounding like that also? [0:30:04]
THERAPIST: Like even your experience of when your mind went when you were sick and your grandmother, and you're stuck in being physical or is that also oh my god they're coming back?
THERAPIST: There's so much that has been changing so quickly for you.
THERAPIST: I think good things, but they're also as they become good in a way one of the things you've been describing lately is being just a feeling that you're more in reality. Then a kind of one extreme fantasy to another. And that's good but it also is a, I could see that it would raise so much anxiety and sadness and kind of, wait this is what's real. Like you were saying last week, I think I'm just sort of; it might even have been before the break. Just sort of coming to terms that this is my life. [0:33:01]
THERAPIST: What was the ending of the movie?
THERAPIST: And that's real.
THERAPIST: What was it like when you were planning this thing.
THERAPIST: When you were planning this.
THERAPIST: This wasn't planned?
THERAPIST: That's like I feel like there should be 2 [inaudible] in you about this. Like on the one hand crying could feel like being like your mother, or being too much like a woman or something.
THERAPIST: Yeah well they ate part of you.
THERAPIST: Actually seems exciting to me.
THERAPIST: Part of you is coming along. People cry. It's a healthy thing to cry sometimes, and this is coming alive. You're gaining access to it.
THERAPIST: Well also that you're crying could give some, I mean it might be useful to you actually. You might, that's why I asked you what the movie was. You start to know, it gives you information about what's hitting a nerve.
THERAPIST: It's a story in this movie, and also it's a big ending, but this story is still 2 people who are lost in their own ways, uncertain about why, trying their hardest and making mistakes. But make contact with each other, even in the middle of all that there's still moments of connect, and that feels like a piece of what was missing from your childhood. You're left so much alone with it, the problems of humanity. Those aren't going away during analysis. The why you're here is still gonna be there, but you were so alone with your anxiety, and sadness as a kid.
THERAPIST: So that's new too.
THERAPIST: That's new too.
THERAPIST: Even just to hear you talk about Cecelia. And just have loving affection.
THERAPIST: So much self-criticism.
THERAPIST: A douche bag. I mean
THERAPIST: There's just this constantly this self-monitor out here. Judging whether what you're doing is clichéd or douche.
THERAPIST: It's hard on you sometimes though.
THERAPIST: What's it like to say that to me?
THERAPIST: What's it like?
THERAPIST: It's a positive feeling.
THERAPIST: A positive feeling. Like Cecelia.
THERAPIST: So that's part of also you're association with me and what I'm wearing today came after you're saying that's just me, that I have high standards. Maybe you're also trying to say maybe this is who I am though. There's a way no matter what I'm always gonna be fussy about shoes. That's just who you are, you know what I mean? But you don't actually, it doesn't feel, it feels okay. Like you're saying it to me.
THERAPIST: I know you are, I know you are. You're saying that in a way it's not gonna be something you can analyze away. That's something
THERAPIST: So there may be ways that focusing on her shoes [inaudible] half of a symptom. Doesn't only have to be about something narcissistic. There may have been an element of that, but as that sort of recedes there may still be parts of it that are you. Your attention to aesthetics, and love for aesthetic and art. It could go into dress, it could go into music.
THERAPIST: Well also what happens when I'm in here with open-toed shoes or in an outfit that you think stinks? Like how can?
THERAPIST: How can, but it's gonna happen. And so how can there be a whole person? How could Kelly, for example, be disappointed in something you were wearing that she doesn't think looks good?
THERAPIST: How could you think that about her, and love
THERAPIST: So there's our [inaudible] then. (Chuckling) Those people are humans and there's no way
THERAPIST: So Thursday.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: This is December and you paid $20 extra for December. I don't know if you were aware of that.
THERAPIST: You overpaid $20. I don't know if you did that on purpose or maybe by accident. There was a session we didn't meet, the week of Christmas.
THERAPIST: So that, I just put that towards the -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: It was good.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: You felt what?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It is.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Creative.
THERAPIST: But when you think of it, it sounds like it's a very positive thing.
THERAPIST: It's interesting, a true artist who is robust. It's not just that being an artist is being weak or not successful or not a doctor and a lawyer. There's a way he embodies strong.
THERAPIST: Something to be proud of and an artist.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [0:06:16.7]
THERAPIST: I also can't help but think about our conversation about dress and clothing and aesthetics and style. One of the things we were talking about that on Monday is how there may have been elements that have been defensive or narcissistic to all that, but there are also elements that feel increasingly clear, that are just about you. [0:07:30.0]
THERAPIST: That that's just who you are.
THERAPIST: Like art is part of who you are. And to have that not be a bad thing that you have to get rid of.
THERAPIST: Quite the opposite. Something to be, because it's who you are, that you could actually feel proud of.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: There's been such a split in man is strong and doesn't have knickknacks.
THERAPIST: And woman is weak and has knick you know?
THERAPIST: This conjuring of this person from that company, who died, you'd known, is a person where actually that dichotomy breaks down and you can remember wait.
THERAPIST: There's almost a role model.
THERAPIST: Where it's not like that, and he felt really happy about himself and proud of himself and didn't hide parts of who he was, and was strong.
THERAPIST: Like a refinement, a sophistication too.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. It's his own art.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. The negative stuff, and your mom sort of made that all one. You have this image, this icon or this icon.
THERAPIST: And instead of both of them having all these complicated layers of who they were; some good, some bad.
THERAPIST: And that her good qualities could even be good qualities in a man.
THERAPIST: And it didn't sound like she sounded like she was teasing you about it.
THERAPIST: It sounds like something wants to happen.
THERAPIST: And it's actually not really it doesn't have to be a gender trait, attending to details in people.
THERAPIST: At all.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I think that's what I was saying, you know, the words, like there are all these categories of what's douchey and not.
THERAPIST: It feels sort of reminiscent of even people say a guy who gets a manicure.
THERAPIST: Maybe he likes it.
THERAPIST: Maybe he likes it.
THERAPIST: What's not to like?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And then even you're making a comment, like none of that gay stuff for me, could also just come from a place that's just your humor.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It didn't feel as persecuted.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And if I had an answer to that, it absolves you of your guilt.
THERAPIST: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: There's something that feels almost wrong about it you're saying?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It felt good.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: That's what I wonder, is when you get into what matters, what is it? Because it sounds like you feel like she could relate enough.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [0:24:26.1]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. You're saying though, even the other Assyrian girls, women, wouldn't understand, so they're Assyrian and they wouldn't.
THERAPIST: So it's not even an Assyrian...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, you really embody both cultures at the same time.
THERAPIST: That it's unusual.
THERAPIST: It's not common.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: In contrast about your kind of "weekend" Assyrians, it sounds like the feeling that a lot of people look at it, even if they feel bicultural, when they're in one they're sort of forgetting they're the other.
THERAPIST: And then they go to this one and they forget they're this one.
THERAPIST: And you I mean, I think that's what I was struck by when you were talking about the political debates in your family, how much you've always brought both sides of the whole of who you are to every situation.
THERAPIST: You're not with your Americanized friends pretending not to be Assyrian.
THERAPIST: And the same in your own family. You're not pretending that you're not part of you can be American culture.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Do you know what stopped you?
THERAPIST: Do you know what stopped you?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Why would you not keep it up? [0:30:09.1]
THERAPIST: Why would you not keep it up.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think there are ways some of what we're talking about is very specific to being bicultural. I also think there may be elements of this that you're less alone in than it might feel like, in that every person has a family culture that a new person in their life will never quite understand.
THERAPIST: You know? Or that you lose parts of by joining with another human being, who just is not your mirror.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: There's so much more to share.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: That's not what I actually expected you to say, because that brings it more to the level of what will it be like if I'm myself.
THERAPIST: This was part of -
THERAPIST: Are you worried about what she would feel?
THERAPIST: She would feel left out?
THERAPIST: But what if she were interested in it?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [0:34:30.5]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like, could it be something she could be fine with on the surface, in the beginning, but then it grows old and she's tired of it.
THERAPIST: Like any part of a person.
THERAPIST: It's really important.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's interesting, as much as you're thinking that I want to be with someone Assyrian, it also sounds like underneath that is will she get tired of my being Assyrian.
THERAPIST: Of the language, yeah.
THERAPIST: But she might too. [0:37:14.3]
THERAPIST: Not that it's not worth thinking about, but I think you would even be picking up already if it were something she was turned off by.
THERAPIST: You know?
THERAPIST: You'd know that on some...
THERAPIST: Or it might be something over time she's fine with most of the time, and then maybe one time every now and then she gets frustrated.
THERAPIST: And you deal with that.
THERAPIST: But it's not it doesn't mean being out the door either.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Are you talking holidays like that? [0:38:16.2]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: You sound like you're feeling better than last week.
THERAPIST: Your jaw too, even?
THERAPIST: Inspired to be yourself more.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I think it can also be relieving and a little unnerving, to feel like it actually matters to be here, that it makes a difference.
THERAPIST: Relieving.
THERAPIST: To notice that it can help, but then it can also feel like it's a little scary when there's a week break, with your being sick.
THERAPIST: That losing that connection...
THERAPIST: The connection can matter, people or cats. I wondered that when you first brought up the idea of going to Assyria, but at the time it first came up, I don't know that you knew what this would eventually feel like, and that it could continue to change over time, what that would the reality of what that would actually feel like, to have a month break from doing this. [0:43:22.7]
THERAPIST: I know.
THERAPIST: What if you get a really good response?
THERAPIST: It's about time.
THERAPIST: Tomorrow, we're at 11:30.
THERAPIST: Eleven-thirty.
THERAPIST: That's the regular time until March, we can switch back to a later time.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: See you then.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: You don't remember any of them?
THERAPIST: Ah huh.
THERAPIST: (sighs twice).
THERAPIST: (sighs).
THERAPIST: You didn't have a sense of having a nightmare or a night terror, it sounds like, maybe than a bizarre dream, but it wasn't terrifying.
THERAPIST: (sighs).
THERAPIST: Yeah, I hope you don't (cross talk).
THERAPIST: (sighs).
THERAPIST: It's almost like some general fear that if she gets too close to you it could be something she sees she doesn't like.
THERAPIST: But, so what? So what?
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: And the fear is that she'd know something?
THERAPIST: In a panic (ph). [00:04:16]
THERAPIST: Feeling that vulnerable in a way around her.
THERAPIST: It's just to remind me of your dream that we ever really talk about it was embedded in some of your dreams of I think you were in a restaurant or something? We thought it was kind of like a restaurant and there was someone in this bathroom stall and...
THERAPIST: And then they, the person came out and said that you know, said something about the hole or the leak...
THERAPIST: And you said, "uh uh, it wasn't me."
THERAPIST: You just think that your association was to your house and fixing the leak...
THERAPIST: ... with the dream last night.
THERAPIST: ... that's the metaphor for leaking houses.
THERAPIST: (sighs).
THERAPIST: (Laughs).
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: (Sighs).
THERAPIST: (Hmm).
THERAPIST: And you left your apartment and you found the girl? (cross talk) or was that in a separate apartment?
THERAPIST: (Hmm).
THERAPIST: (Hmm).
THERAPIST: I wonder what you make of it, both parts.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah, like that.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Or me?
THERAPIST: In awe of their size .,.
THERAPIST: Um hmm (laughs).
THERAPIST: My fantasy was the tape recorder.
THERAPIST: My fantasy was the tape recorder.
THERAPIST: That's the third person.
THERAPIST: (Chuckle)
THERAPIST: Well, it's a, I mean, a metaphor also for me it sounds and are you on the inside of the dyad and there is someone else on the outside? Are you on the outside looking in? Your mother and father? I think you sort of can go back and forth about feeling inside or outside.
THERAPIST: And that that can even happen in families and in every relationship.
THERAPIST: Almost like, ‘I don't care'?
THERAPIST: ‘I'm not changing who I am (cross talk) ...
THERAPIST: ... or what I'm doing here.'
THERAPIST: That they're (cross talk) ...
THERAPIST: .. like a metaphor?
THERAPIST: It doesn't.
THERAPIST: You're used to it.
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It was somebody you were, it was, someone you'd be into in real life in other words.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Oh, really.
THERAPIST: (Cross talk) the representation of her. Or, even you can think of her as a representation of part of yourself, too, that when you are in that place of feeling good about you, proud of being an artist-and we've been talking about this-proud of aesthetics, you know, that this is you and something that you can actually expect and love and live in. It's a different sort of self-state, self opinion represented.
THERAPIST: About you. And loveable.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: If you know what's next, that there's a feeling of being really in this and it's new and then you get more vulnerable and you might be snoring and then you might have a bad dream next to her that your dream could even be returning to something older and safer and familiar, you know. That winning the girl over, being the one who won instead of him, kind of old stuff, but about your conquests instead of ...
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Right. It's sort of ideally erotic again and you win and it's hot and ...
THERAPIST: ... everything's great...
THERAPIST: ...but you get to forget about those leaks.
THERAPIST: And that's not like something you can write about.
THERAPIST: I guess that's all I'm saying is like it doesn't sound like there's nothing ...
THERAPIST: It's a new-it's new.
THERAPIST: I think you're still wrapping your mind around what this is.
THERAPIST: What there is ... (cross talk)
THERAPIST: You said.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I could see it feeling bland. If you're going from drama-at first for a while it's going to feel like ‘so what?'
THERAPIST: So the negative voice might be a kind of lure back to the repetition of making somehow-this would be a bad thing?
THERAPIST: about yourself...
THERAPIST: ...about other people.
THERAPIST: It's either sort of gleaming ideal perfect or devalued.
THERAPIST: Lots of words you use to devalue people (chuckle).
THERAPIST: Is what I think happens to those other people and towards yourself...
THERAPIST: When you talk about with yourself, but, (Pause) it's not that the right people married saying, ‘I wish she were a little thinner.' Like what a-I'm sure every person in every marriage has something they wished were different.
THERAPIST: Have a list of things they wish were different. But, that there's a lot here that is good enough.
THERAPIST: That makes this...
THERAPIST: There's never perfect.
THERAPIST: It's another layer of your dream and the leaks as you're picking up on what stirred hearing her being so critical, so nit-picky, and so you're looking for the flaws and looking for the mistakes that you know what it's like being on the receiving end of that but you also know that you have embodied that yourself over time towards other people.
THERAPIST: And toward yourself. I started thinking when you said, ‘I snore', and I think, ‘so?'
THERAPIST: ...you're in families or when you're, you know-that's part of being a person.
THERAPIST: [00:37:41]
THERAPIST: It's really strict.
THERAPIST: What's good and what's not good enough.
THERAPIST: But maybe not love with someone (cross talk)
THERAPIST: How interesting. I get (inaudible) that that could be something she could find endearing or cute or that you could joke about‘I guess I have to put ear plugs in, or you know-(cross talk)
THERAPIST: Ahhh.
THERAPIST: But a lot of people...(chuckle)
THERAPIST: Right. (laughing)
THERAPIST: I'll let you know. There are a couple of other dates into the spring and I can't even write it down-just make a note.
THERAPIST: I just want to let you know it's a future (inaudible) [00:40:33]
THERAPIST: Yes. (inaudible) [00:40:38]
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: You did, you mentioned...
THERAPIST: That's a change.
THERAPIST: You're running outside. I don't think I've heard you to run outside.
THERAPIST: You have?
THERAPIST: So this was Saturday?
THERAPIST: So you've been even since that first day?
THERAPIST: It does, like something started to shift even before you checked the deadline because the fact that you are approaching eve the website, do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Something already...
THERAPIST: Motivated you?
THERAPIST: Wow!
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think so.
THERAPIST: Congratulations.
THERAPIST: That's exciting.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: She had said that to you too, didn't she?
THERAPIST: Although it sounds like you're (inaudible)
THERAPIST: [To see her hurt?] (ph?)
THERAPIST: That was the first?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Until the next day?
THERAPIST: It feels like it's a change for her and her communication?
THERAPIST: So that's all you're responding to...
THERAPIST: Is the change?
THERAPIST: It could likely be her just being withdrawn in grief.
THERAPIST: Or wear her heart on her sleeve too much?
THERAPIST: Even if there were something, I guess I just want you to walk down that pathway. If who she is, is more emotionally self-protected, maybe then you are, that that could be true and she still wants to be in the relationship.
THERAPIST: Let's say maybe saying "I love you" made her feel anxious cause of her own attachment stuff?
THERAPIST: I'm not even saying it did but even if it did that doesn't have to mean that it's bad...
THERAPIST: Like that's something, that's her stuff.
THERAPIST: About love, about...
THERAPIST: Say she's been hurt over and over and over again in her own past so she kind of stays more independent or something like that. That doesn't mean she doesn't love you but this is how she responds to increasing intimacy, like sometimes there are positives....
THERAPIST: Or it might be...
THERAPIST: It could be...
THERAPIST: Yes. It could be if you were farther along in the relationship where it would really save, you might even be annoyed that she'd withdrawn so much when her dog died. That why couldn't she be close to you. Why does that mean she has to not? Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Sure, sure.
THERAPIST: Nothing?
THERAPIST: What do you feel like doing?
THERAPIST: And you feel lonely? (ph?)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, I think also when you're feeling anxious about your own feelings about it, you look to an extra judge to tell you what's the right thing to do. That's some other person's voice saying "Shouldn't your boyfriend be calling you?" But I think what matters is what feels right to you. Or where you stop yourself from doing what feels right to you, why? What's preventing you from being you?
THERAPIST: But in a relationship it's a little unusual isn't it? You're actually seeing each other?
THERAPIST: In case?
THERAPIST: She knows you're there.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
THERAPIST: Do you have a deadline?
THERAPIST: You'll see how things will unfold in the next few days, like where the pulse of her grief is and the relationship. You could imagine you touching base and saying, just saying "I'm assuming this isn't a good time for you to do this."
THERAPIST: "Would it make sense for me to move forward with someone else?"
THERAPIST: Say "I understand" and to let her say "yeah, that sounds.." you know?
THERAPIST: It sounds like it is for her.
THERAPIST: For people who are, especially dog lovers, they're, I think that's very common. Dogs more than any other pet 'cause they're that much more intelligent and have a longer relationship.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:26:02]
THERAPIST: So many should, should, shoulds...Maybe I should do this, maybe I should do that.
THERAPIST: It's just, it's something and I said hard to find but you think you want to do. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: That's your fear.
THERAPIST: (laughs).
THERAPIST: I think I also keep responding to the idea that either your fear is that this somehow this is gonna set off a chain that she's done with the relationship and that the alternative is that it's nothing. You keep saying "I got to keep reminding myself it's nothing, it's nothing, it's nothing." I think there's a lot of room between your worst fear and "it's nothing, it's fine" including that maybe she's responding to this in a way you don't like that bothers you. Like what if this is her stuff getting kicked up because this is a death to her and there's her own anxiety about being abandoned, people leave...I don't know.
THERAPIST: You have no idea.
THERAPIST: Is she afraid to talk to you about those feelings?
THERAPIST: That has nothing to do with actually that she's happy in the relationship.
THERAPIST: That there's nothing?
THERAPIST: Yes, it's not that.
THERAPIST: What you fear is not sounding like it's happening.
THERAPIST: There might be other things...
THERAPIST: Minor things starting.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: These were your peers, contemporaries? Or they were your mom's generation?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: When you say simple you mean less smart or not sophisticated?
THERAPIST: Not your kind of people?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I wondered.
THERAPIST: Even with your other friends...
THERAPIST: To be challenged?
THERAPIST: Why haven't you, do you know?
THERAPIST: Well I also wonder, we were talking about this Friday and Thursday a little bit in other context but the, whenever that word "douchey" comes up, it's on the surface a criticism of these other "assholes" for trying to hard or being too pretentious but I just wonder if there are, it also kind of puts a band-aid over other feelings that could start in that kind of context.
THERAPIST: That's terribly sad. [00:38:17]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean there could be, it's like you're damned if you do, damned if you don't, you could be yourself a douche? Like what if you're the one where all the sudden one day it's not really feeling true that you have talent or nobody else, you stand up there and they don't think so that day. What if you're one of them which you might even know is highly unlikely but that's there and the alternative is that you do well...
THERAPIST: Or you do and you could've been doing this twenty years ago.
THERAPIST: It's sort of like there's this tremendous amount of grief awaiting you. If it goes well and you're successful that certainly would inhibit...
THERAPIST: Maybe tomorrow?
THERAPIST: A beer sounds better than all that...
THERAPIST: Yes, yes.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah?
THERAPIST: To see you get recognition?
THERAPIST: It's genuinely exciting.
THERAPIST: It is a little strange to think of all the things you could've been more actively pursuing if you wanted to? This came about because someone pursued you.
THERAPIST: I don't think I mentioned that Martin Luther King day, did I tell you that...
THERAPIST: It's a Monday.
THERAPIST: And the Tuesday and Friday actually so just...
THERAPIST: Yes, 18th and 21st. Oh I did say the dates?
THERAPIST: Making sure...
THERAPIST: Yes
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Bad year?
THERAPIST: The flus...
THERAPIST: You're aware, it sounds like that it's...had meaning beyond that you have a cold?
THERAPIST: It means something more than that?
THERAPIST: When you say in your mind "better not be sick this weekend when I see Kelly or else..."
THERAPIST: I guess what does that mean? I mean nobody likes to be sick right, that's a given but it sounds like it, there's some other layers of worry about it. [00:02:31]
THERAPIST: And then?
THERAPIST: Again I think being sick at one level is aggravating for most people.
THERAPIST: But there's something that feels like there's more on the mind beyond simply that it's annoying.
THERAPIST: Like there's one layer...
THERAPIST: The thing though when you get it it sounds like it, you don't feel like you don't get sick. There's like...
THERAPIST: It feels like, even though rationally you know that's not true, you don't get sick that often compared to most people.
THERAPIST: But it can feel when you're in it like it's another obstacle.
THERAPIST: Like another thing going wrong.
THERAPIST: Rather than an ordinary thing that goes wrong in ordinary people's lives all the time.
THERAPIST: That and then you're in good company, you end up feeling like an outsider again.
THERAPIST: I also wonder if there's another layer of it, rather than it being something on the inside that you can hide, the fact that you can hear it in your voice or you were here on that Thursday having to blow your nose. There's something that feels more along lines of how you feel if I say you look sad. There's something you can see and then people know that you feel that way. It's like your feelings are apparent. Kelly will see that you feel lousy and feel tired and it feels like a weakness is being seen...
THERAPIST: For what?
THERAPIST: Yeah but...
THERAPIST: Where did that judgment even come from in you that that would be?
THERAPIST: The message that, the implicit message that gets delivered in the scenarios you're describing is there's a way of making it perfect right?
THERAPIST: Instead of, kind of accepting?
THERAPIST: What a normal thing that people would feel exhausted (inaudible) or have a pimple or have, you know, like these are normal parts of life that you don't, it isn't to make everything perfect, right? [00:09:19]
THERAPIST: Right? There's a fantasy still that you could erase all of that. Everything could be fixed somehow.
THERAPIST: So maybe you have that voice inside you when you start to get sick like "oh this is something going wrong with me, why did I do this to myself?"
THERAPIST: You can watch him in a way play out the world being against him, you know, had to do this...
THERAPIST: (laughs) Oh no!
THERAPIST: Everything is dire.
THERAPIST: It's hard to imagine how you could not grow up with the feeling that the whole world is out to get you.
THERAPIST: And that conversation, just is so apparent.
THERAPIST: Everything gets treated that way.
THERAPIST: To you? [00:15:58]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: So hilarious?
THERAPIST: Cause that's the thing. You do have your dad in you and he's an extreme in another direction where, at least what you've said about him, more stoic and never complaining, you know, tough and...
THERAPIST: Mm hm. It still feels like you get these two very divergent ways of dealing with a minor problem and there isn't a lot of space in the middle for it being seen and noticed and having some empathy but it not being dire either.
THERAPIST: There is?
THERAPIST: Like "I'm sorry you have a cold."
THERAPIST: It's not a big deal?
THERAPIST: Just anxiety?
THERAPIST: I don't know if I'd call it...
THERAPIST: It sounds frenetic, it's not just sweet and caretaking...
THERAPIST: There's so little recognition of you as a whole, separate person.
THERAPIST: You said this (inaudible).
THERAPIST: That's what's so funny about it, you can see that about her but she's very insecure.
THERAPIST: But she doesn't know it when she walks in.
THERAPIST: She has to be apologizing...
THERAPIST: She can throw down about herself but somehow you become a container for things to feel insecure about.
THERAPIST: It's a hard thing to open up, knowing more about, even when you're in a place in the present that doesn't bother you so much anymore.
THERAPIST: I think it's a hard thing to know.
THERAPIST: Why you think we care?
THERAPIST: Why you think we care?
THERAPIST: It's another, like incredible expression, pitiful and on fire?
THERAPIST: Do you live in this context?
THERAPIST: Really pitiful and on fire, it's like this captures this oxymoron of two parts of herself, her family's selves, about being sort of meek, insecure, (inaudible), but also the fieriness of being persecuted at the same time and angry and angry at the world.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:26:28] And to have it be in the culture so much that it has that expression. I mean it's really pervasive.
THERAPIST: It's almost like a feeling, a cultural feeling of emasculation.
THERAPIST: Not just men but...
THERAPIST: Widely (ph?)
THERAPIST: Say it again.
THERAPIST: It's eastern Assyrian. I mean Western Assyrian but it's....Who is the Eastern Assyrian end? Although it's not really on fire, it's pitiful and fire, just an odd grammatical.
THERAPIST: So you're not the only one feeling that way?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It makes some sense around the feeling like I often get since we talk about this with words like douche or pathetic. It feels like that's kind of a groove inside you that burned really deeply that a lot of things end up falling into and being defined as, things that don't as an outsider, feel that pathetic or douchey or whatever that means. A lot gets poured in to that, like that's the fear of what you could be, what your mother could be, what Assyrians could be.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like even you said that about blowing your nose "Oh you just don't do that, that's pathetic, you hide that stuff." You know?
THERAPIST: I know that's one extreme example but...
THERAPIST: Right. Everything gets sort of monitored for "is this pathetic or not?"
THERAPIST: There may be other layers to that too, about things that were done to you or in your family without thought or awareness.
THERAPIST: It's different.
THERAPIST: But still I'm thinking about, we were talking about your feelings for Cecelia. I remember you saying they sometimes get so strong that you even think about writing a poem about it and then you immediately say "I don't want to be one of those douches."
THERAPIST: This is another moment where it feels like the second guessing of just your emotional life, like how even strong feelings can become something like "oh that's pathetic, I don't want to be one of those pathetic...", about a normal part of, you know, life, gets judged.
THERAPIST: It's a big deal?
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) [00:37:36] Tomorrow?
THERAPIST: Eleven thirty, I'm pretty sure. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's so interesting.
THERAPIST: Lots of detail.
THERAPIST: Not an Armenian name? Is it?
THERAPIST: Did you think he was like your kid in the dream?
THERAPIST: So what are your thoughts?
THERAPIST: Baby?
THERAPIST: So he's the kid?
THERAPIST: I have this... your experience last night, remember you saying yesterday "I'm going to go even though I don't feel very well because I need to set the precedent, give them more to talk about with the drummer." It's you being the responsible, accountable adult and talking to someone who's not quite there doing that about that, or thinking about how to handle that and someone else...
THERAPIST: You taking care of your own is part of yourself.
THERAPIST: Does it feel more like it's a job for him? He shows up, does his thing and leaves?
THERAPIST: I know.
THERAPIST: There's no attachment to the band itself?
THERAPIST: You're looking at it as "This is my band."
THERAPIST: How are you feeling?
THERAPIST: It's a cold? You don't feel to...?
THERAPIST: Not as bad as last, like over the holidays?
THERAPIST: Take care of your body?
THERAPIST: You said $27.39?
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you happen to know that number? Why that number?
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Who's they?
THERAPIST: It made me think also, we were talking about the fee in here. You've been paying twenty dollars, we had been having the conversation about bumping things up five dollars.
THERAPIST: And that number, specifically the number 25, was in here. And in the dream you're saying "No I'm going to pay five..." (laughs) (pause) [00:12:00]
THERAPIST: I was going to say I don't remember your having a cough.
THERAPIST: Do you ever go to the doctor when you're sick?
THERAPIST: Then you'd go?
THERAPIST: Just seeing a black ball, the pun in your dream of a black ball, keeping someone out...your drummer.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:14:26] Well the fact that it feels that way for you, the color black...
THERAPIST: Has it been hurtful at all to his kind of, the way you start to describe, he's got his hands in a lot of different things and he's just kind of feeling out his options, in a way remaining detached from any one of them. I can imagine there being more feelings to that, like you guys are all invested and he's not that invested?
THERAPIST: So he's not your friend?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm just wondering what the sadness is from and giving it (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Sadness with the black ball.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think that's what we were talking about yesterday, that the physical symptoms of whatever kind will bring you down, again it's not that it's not annoying for anybody but there's a feeling it takes on, there's more meaning to it being a dark place.
THERAPIST: I don't think so actually.
THERAPIST: I know people feel frustrated they can't, it's an obstacle to what they wanted to do that day or they might feel tired but it really does feel like it affects your mood, that black ball. It's a weight(ph?) Inside you. [00:19:21]
THERAPIST: It's almost like it moves you to a different self-state, like there's, you're pushed to some other, older part inside you, feeling this way rather than this being Brian who had a practice last night, finished his record, things were going well and he has a cold.
THERAPIST: What do you remember about it specifically?
THERAPIST: The first part, it's like you get blamed for being sick?
THERAPIST: "How did you do this or how did this happen? It's because you didn't wear your hat..."
THERAPIST: No wonder it feels dark then, it's like it's something you did wrong.
THERAPIST: And then the remedies? How do they feel? Like what was it like for you?
THERAPIST: It's okay.
THERAPIST: It's too much?
THERAPIST: It's hard to imagine that it was exactly the same as the average parent, the number of things you know about, little things feel like crazy and its so many different realms of life where the negative beings are churned and churned and churned and churned.
THERAPIST: Or the pathetic, the focus on every little sign that a person is pathetic and everything is interpreted that way. [00:23:53] Almost like this could be revealing your weakness or something.
THERAPIST: Rather than your ordinariness, amongst other ordinary people.
THERAPIST: How so?
THERAPIST: Woe is me?
THERAPIST: It's the tone?
THERAPIST: (laugh)
THERAPIST: It's another whole realm where they're, she's so, kind of persecuted of [her own bubble herself]ph
THERAPIST: That even you can hear, I mean it makes it complicated for you I imagine to ask for help or complain in a way that's normal, like "Would you mind getting me a glass of water," as being a normal thing people do when they're sick.
THERAPIST: With her you've gone so in the opposite direction of steeling yourself off from being anything like her.
THERAPIST: Like "I'm sorry, anything I can do, what can I do?"
THERAPIST: "What can I do that would help you?" Actually help you, instead of what I think would help you.
THERAPIST: It's fraught. Everything is so fraught. So much worry too, just so much anxiety.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Or she cuts it off with a kind of "this is what any person would do, but of course I would feel different, there's a very reasonable explanation that is what would happen to every person." Which isn't true.
THERAPIST: It's not true.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) use it . Is it for me or for you?
THERAPIST: It feels good?
THERAPIST: On your throat?
THERAPIST: Looks like you have one of those masks on.
THERAPIST: They're giving masks?
THERAPIST: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, like you don't feel like it's something more serious?
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: You get a taste today, it seems to me like you, in a more palpable way, about how terribly anxious she is about so many things.
THERAPIST: And how could that not get inside you? Imagine being a two year old and you have a mother who's terribly anxious about so many things and meddling and smothering, that kind of sort of intrusive caretaking. How could you not start to feel worried about your own body, your own half, every little sign and symptom, for example, all the physical stuff that just feels like anxiety about ordinary body changes or ordinary sicknesses that she didn't treat as ordinary. You also get a taste more of her, but kind of narcissism is a label, but her difficulty owning who she is and how she gets riled up about things.
THERAPIST: And no capacity to take ownership of that?
THERAPIST: Like one thing even if you're that way, but you can still say to yourself "Oh this is me and my anxiety, I get really anxious when stuff don't...don't let it worry you. It's my problem, not yours."
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: It doesn't undo the groove that's been burned inside you.
THERAPIST: You're actually helping her undo her groove.
THERAPIST: That's the black ball she handed to you? It's like the only ball you have. It's there. (pause) [00:43:14] You also get so hard on yourself by being here, sometimes it feels like you want to immediately say "but I'm more like my dad."
THERAPIST: That there's not a lot of room as there wasn't in her to say "Oh, this is in me and it's actually..." Just as you would have felt with her, it's not as bad if she can say "Oh, I'm so melodramatic sometimes." That's actually a huge difference then just living it without knowing that you're lying and how in a way could you not have upsided that in you and also a side of your family in you? [00:44:27] That's who we are, is parents get set up inside each person about how the world is. You watch a kid, two year old, fall down at the park and look to their parent to see how should I react to this? And if the parent is going "Ahh!" the kid bursts into tears. If the parent goes "Ah, you're alright, " the kid stands up and goes off and plays. Already the development of a child's emotional experiencing that "how should I react to what just happened?" They're looking and they literally watch the parents, you can see it all the time in little kids. They watch for "what is the reaction to this?" You would look at your mother, I'm sure even as an infant, and kids pick these things up and that's what you learn. You also learn different things from your father which is what could have been confusing to you, to put these two parts together and they're both parts of you. There's this other really tough, stoic, you know, maybe even to an extreme tough and stoic side.
THERAPIST: Mm hm. And then it can become part of the fabric of who you are, rather than the facts of the world, you know? It's like someone who's shy, if they're trying to convince their children they should, you know "it's scary out there, don't say anything, don't go near these people," paranoid about things. Its different then "This is the way I feel. How do you feel?"
THERAPIST: It's just kind of feelings about things that aren't facts.
THERAPIST: But her feelings were treated as facts. Her fears were treated as facts rather than as something she could talk about as her fears.
THERAPIST: So Monday? Hope you feel better.
THERAPIST: Yeah and we'll have Monday and Thursday.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Did you get on antibiotics?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: It's just got to run its course.
THERAPIST: Rest.
THERAPIST: That's what I wondered is that I know you've even had to be out sick, or have missed, but you usually have called me recently.
THERAPIST: The fact that you didn't call, I assumed –
THERAPIST: I wonder what that's about.
THERAPIST: Did it cross your mind, or did you – was it –
THERAPIST: – even on your mind? [00:01:56]
THERAPIST: Why? Do you know?
THERAPIST: Well, I mean, you could be really so sick that you can't pick up the phone, but usually with bronchitis, it wouldn't be at that level that you couldn't just call and cancel something. So that's why I wonder if there was something –
THERAPIST: Emotional – yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like pulling back to being avoidant almost for a day or maybe more.
THERAPIST: I don't know if it was just a day?
THERAPIST: And that's why – what would pull you there? Was being sick pulling you into – [00:02:58]
THERAPIST: – away?
THERAPIST: And it would take you a minute.
THERAPIST: No, no, no. I'm not saying this as I'm shaking my finger. It's just being interested in what it –
THERAPIST: There's some things, I was – felt better about just really being able to shut everything out?
THERAPIST: In a long time.
THERAPIST: Mm–hmm.
THERAPIST: It's almost then like, shutting out your current reality.
THERAPIST: Not having to be in it for a day.
THERAPIST: Because even once you make the phone call, you're back in reality, back reminded, oh, I'm not making the appointment. That, or what did I have to do at work today that I'm not going to be able to do?
THERAPIST: Maybe giving it to each other?
THERAPIST: Giving it to each other?
THERAPIST: So that's important, too, that you'd feel stupid.
THERAPIST: The fact of frustrated turning into I feel stupid, it's like it's a defect, a personal defect somehow.
THERAPIST: I think that's part of the making the phone call and announcing I am sick.
THERAPIST: So I can't come. I feel bad.
THERAPIST: Did you imagine I would think it was something, have some feeling about it, or roll my eyes?
THERAPIST: Not believe you?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: For a day, you get to get away from those feelings then, in a way.
THERAPIST: By avoiding. [00:06:59]
THERAPIST: But then they're there waiting for you when you get back.
THERAPIST: Did you imagine me here waiting for you when the time comes and goes?
THERAPIST: Maybe you were mad.
THERAPIST: Maybe you were mad.
THERAPIST: That it wasn't under 48 hours.
THERAPIST: And a breeze, and –
THERAPIST: Did you ever feel like –
THERAPIST: (Overlapping voices) and then it would've been taken care of.
THERAPIST: Then I wondered if you were mad, or if there was something –
THERAPIST: (pause) Maybe not calling is a form of looking for something. It creates something instead of the ordinariness.
THERAPIST: Of just – it's kind of ordinary, you can't get to a doctor's appointment.
THERAPIST: And then you call and cancel.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And it doesn't – there may be moments when you pull back –
THERAPIST: – to something that's familiar. I mean, that's what I'm imagining. If I were to make that phone call, I'd be feeling kind of anxious about it then for the rest of the day, a little bit –
THERAPIST: – in the background.
THERAPIST: Where as if you made it, it's done.
THERAPIST: It's off your plate. [00:17:00]
THERAPIST: When we're talking about it now, on the outside, all the actions you feel comfortable with.
THERAPIST: It's more just you're now looking at what's inside, even though you might be doing what everything you feel okay with on the outside. There may be different thoughts and feelings internally from time to time.
THERAPIST: Which it sounds like wouldn't be apparent from the outside at all.
THERAPIST: But you're still interesting in actually feeling better.
THERAPIST: Inside yourself.
THERAPIST: Oh, sure. Sure.
THERAPIST: The outsider.
THERAPIST: As the only vulnerable person. [00:23:59]
THERAPIST: That's why I think I was wondering what if you thought or imagined what my experience was when you weren't here.
THERAPIST: When you didn't show up and didn't call. But it's a – that's a little moment of not imagining that Kelly's a person who would be vulnerable. [00:25:02]
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 25:06) meant it's morally – that I would be in this place of judging, that's it. You screwed up –
THERAPIST: Indifferent or something like that.
THERAPIST: It's so important that that's the assumption.
THERAPIST: That the – I mean the indifference –
THERAPIST: Now it's interesting because it's self-involved –
THERAPIST: No, I know that about you. I know that about you.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. (pause)
THERAPIST: So something about being sick and having to be out maybe felt more vulnerable than other times? So you pull back then and say, what's the difference?
THERAPIST: But it's really different though.
THERAPIST: You were genuinely, truly sick.
THERAPIST: Well, you get drawn somehow to that old place, and that place being – I mean, it's so strange that you say it's sort of like, eh, she'll get over it. It's like it doesn't matter that much to me.
THERAPIST: Like it only matters to you, not so much to me.
THERAPIST: Maybe in that way, not calling actually might kind of enforce that it's not a blip. Then I have to think for a while, where is he? Is he coming? Is he coming?
THERAPIST: So I have to think about it for longer, I wonder?
THERAPIST: It sounds familiar.
THERAPIST: Oh, uh-huh.
THERAPIST: It all has a feel of people being interested or loving you, or thinking about you, or feeling like you matter to them is really conditional, and that at a moment's notice, somebody could do one thing and it's done. It just makes me wonder more about – we know, of course, your father and this son that isn't bad (ph) is something that's dramatically different and done, but it feels like there's something much earlier about relationships. Loving – being there and not being there like your parents. [00:30:58]
THERAPIST: Why do you ask?
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes, night terrors.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And you've been traumatized, Brian. And I think, in different ways, beginning with things that you wonder about. I mean, maybe, not even beginning, maybe things before then, but from sexual experiences as a boy to your father's death, to even the layers of being ostracized or the outsider. Your mother, the not favored sister, within the family, the political, extreme contentiousness that leads you getting kicked out of the house sometime. Multiple deaths.
THERAPIST: Ripped from your roots.
THERAPIST: It feels new to me for you to let it in as that, to know it as that. I say that because I think there have been times I've said, "Holy cow, that's unbelievable what you've endured."
THERAPIST: And you kind of, well, well, a lot of people go through this.
THERAPIST: It's actually not your fault what's happened.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) I remember you were just talking about kids being cruel when you were in North Carolina. At times, you had several stories you told me of them throwing rocks at you at one point.
THERAPIST: And saying – I mean my jaw was dropping with – that is trauma. That is trauma. And as soon as I said that, you're like, eh, well, not really. So there's something, maybe something feels different now, like there's some space to know that in a different way.
THERAPIST: So as that starts to come alive, it's real and it also carries with it knowing how much you haven't had that. So it's both terribly happy tears and sad tears at the same time. When you say about humanity and how often those (overlapping voices) – [00:40:04]
THERAPIST: She even snores and you love her.
THERAPIST: Something about her you're saying as being alive.
THERAPIST: Like this living thing?
THERAPIST: Maybe humans aren't so far off.
THERAPIST: I said and maybe humans aren't so far off in their needs.
THERAPIST: Or hurt and abused.
THERAPIST: And then a little these self-protections build up. That lead us to hurt and abuse. (pause) [00:42:02]
THERAPIST: I know I'm stretching it beyond what you're consciously saying, but when you're returning to the old, I think that's a piece of it. It's like returning to the assumption that you're alone, and it's conditional everywhere. And one thing you do, you're out of there. [00:43:03]
THERAPIST: Yes, I called to try to see if I could get another – see what they would do, assuming they wouldn't, and oddly enough, they allowed another 13 sessions. (Laughing)
THERAPIST: No, from between – it was supposed to end in January.
THERAPIST: Was the end of your sessions that – your insurance has been paying one session a week, and that was going to end in January, so I called and did another review. They said, and I was really (inaudible at 43:59) they said no, and then they called me an hour later and said they changed their minds and they were going to approve 13 more. (Laughing) [00:44:03]
THERAPIST: Which is unheard of at this point. I mean you're sort of at the end of the rope with that, so I'm –
THERAPIST: This is, for this insurance company, this is unheard of.
THERAPIST: So at that point, they're calling this another – the 13 sessions for you to transition to another –
THERAPIST: Isn't that the language?
THERAPIST: Yeah, so it's the same thing we went through once before where they – remember they gave you the 13 sessions initially?
THERAPIST: And then we did the appeal and actually got three to four months of sessions approved. So they've granted again 13 sessions for you to transition out at this point, so I just said okay, and I don't think he's going to do that. But at that point, I will try to appeal it again. Because I couldn't – I was shocked that they even approved these 13 sessions, I think it's highly unlikely they would do that. [00:44:59]
THERAPIST: No, at that point, we'll – I mean, I said I can continue this through the end of next year, even without the insurance reimbursement because we're doing the research.
THERAPIST: After that, I don't know that I could do it.
THERAPIST: We would have to see.
THERAPIST: Even, I mean, if you're – I assume your company isn't doing anything with your insurance, because that also would pay for things in a very different way. You could even lower your copay if you ever got on an independent Blue Cross plan or something, or if they changed a PPO, that's another way to continue.
THERAPIST: No.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Through to next, a week – a year from this summer, we can continue as is through the –
THERAPIST: Research.
THERAPIST: So we're not meeting Monday. [00:45:59]
THERAPIST: Friday and Monday.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yes.
THERAPIST: You can bring it next week. That's fine.
THERAPIST: Yes. I was just going to say if – yeah, no, I think I don't have any on Tuesday. Yeah, so we have Thursday, Friday next week.
THERAPIST: Next Thursday and Friday.
THERAPIST: Yeah, mm–hmm.
THERAPIST: Thank you. You, too. You, too.
THERAPIST: Yes. Mm-hmm?
THERAPIST: Yep, yep, and you didn't know what to do.
THERAPIST: Samantha's in the title?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: "Samantha Sessions," yeah.
THERAPIST: That's what you said?
THERAPIST: You don't know that's why. Yeah.
THERAPIST: And even if you're slightly irritated with her -
THERAPIST: it doesn't come across as frustrated.
THERAPIST: She's the one acting weird.
THERAPIST: You're worried it's you?
THERAPIST: hours.
THERAPIST: Do you think this is over?
THERAPIST: I'm not saying you would.
THERAPIST: You might even need to hear her apologize.
THERAPIST: Because it sounds like she got really, really sensitive all of a sudden, for whatever reasons in her own history, was really wounded by your response, even though your response was very, very tactful. In other words, it sounds like, you know what it's like to be that she's sensitive on the surface, and all of a sudden, took the smallest thing that you said and did what you might have done with it once. [00:17:17]
THERAPIST: In her own psyche.
THERAPIST: Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yeah, no. I know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, now you would.
THERAPIST: But she has a different attachment style than you do.
THERAPIST: She's much more avoidant. When she's hurt, she pulls back and protects herself by pulling away. [00:17:58]
THERAPIST: You can still feel good about what you do.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. You came in even laughing. I mean, that's what I thought -
THERAPIST: You weren't -
THERAPIST: broken apart.
THERAPIST: That's sad. [00:23:58]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Maybe that's it, what you're saying, what -
THERAPIST: She has a track record already, just in hearing. Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you're talking about it right now as though you're going to pull back and self-protect, and play the game even more, which I get it from that angle.
THERAPIST: And I actually think that anger is really important in this experience because there's a part of you, the old part is interpreting this as she's left you. There's a new part, though, that I think goes along side of it saying wait a minute, this is not good enough for me. [00:27:15]
THERAPIST: I'm actually not this is crazy, this behavior. Even if she were breaking up with you, then have a conversation about it. Say -
THERAPIST: that was just I'm too sensitive, I'm just calling to check -
THERAPIST: Yes. That you're actually not interested in being in a relationship if someone's going to treat you that way.
THERAPIST: And I think that's, again, another way -
THERAPIST: of looking go ahead.
THERAPIST: I guess that's what I'm the experience of your actually being disappointed in her instead of you're being the one rejected.
THERAPIST: Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: How could she have thrown four months of getting close right now, and have it end this way is just weird.
THERAPIST: And sad.
THERAPIST: What that meant she's doing inside herself to try to shut it down.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: Maybe what you're saying then in a way of thinking about future relationships is if you know more what you deserve, what is good enough for you in a relationship, and carried that with you the whole time, and don't show until shown. Or mutually showing, right?
THERAPIST: Not as a game, but as a waiting to see [00:31:02]
THERAPIST: who this person is. And are they good enough for you to show your heart to. Is it really different than oh, I'm just playing a game, but actually you're seeing where this person is and what kind of person they are, and that's going to take some time.
THERAPIST: Not even -
THERAPIST: saying, "Oh, I'll do it." Just to let you say no.
THERAPIST: Is that what she means? You can call, but -
THERAPIST: The next best thing, then.
THERAPIST: We're going to stop.
THERAPIST: No, that's all right. We'll continue tomorrow.
THERAPIST: 11:30?
THERAPIST: 11:30.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: You could write it tomorrow.
THERAPIST: That's totally fine. Brian, I just wanted to ask you if I had a later time on Monday, would you -
THERAPIST: You'd rather do later?
THERAPIST: Okay. Things are just shuffling around because -
THERAPIST: the semester is starting, and if that's fine -
THERAPIST: I knew that might be preferable if that opened up.
THERAPIST: I don't know if that does that include last week? No? That's just this week's?
THERAPIST: It's okay.
THERAPIST: Just a reminder.
THERAPIST: There's no worries. No worries. Just reminding you.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
THERAPIST: Versus getting through something and (overlapping voices) -
THERAPIST: Wanting to settle down the next day after (overlapping voices) -
THERAPIST: And yet in the mix of feelings, lots of different feelings about this relationship maybe coming to a close. And of course there are mixed feelings dating, or what are you looking for, but that's different than it being unconsciously getting back at her, getting back at her -
THERAPIST: or with her.
THERAPIST: Or another way of thinking about is it could've once maybe been a retreat into one pole of your confidence.
THERAPIST: Right. Really different than now I'm going to get all of them so that I feel better about myself.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you have to do that right now, and if -
THERAPIST: You might not even want to, right. There's no -
THERAPIST: Last night, it sounds like you take it all in stride. I still wonder when you say I couldn't sleep, what did you try to?
THERAPIST: So you didn't even put your head on the pillow, lights out?
THERAPIST: The TV was on.
THERAPIST: Oh, your laptop.
THERAPIST: You always fall asleep with something on, right? No?
THERAPIST: Yeah. But you didn't want to try that last night? [00:05:53]
THERAPIST: Oh, wow.
THERAPIST: Why?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you said [OVERLAPPING VOICES] -
THERAPIST: Hm. So that's an interesting question, though, so why? And it's not typical for you to have four coffees.
THERAPIST: So how about a decaf?
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: So how about tea?
THERAPIST: Hot chocolate.
THERAPIST: It's not good for you to have four cups of coffee where it keeps you up all night, that's all. [00:08:00]
THERAPIST: Your body responds. I mean you said that before, a couple times you had a lot of coffee that day, and you stay up the whole night.
THERAPIST: That (inaudible at 08:44). [LAUGHING]
THERAPIST: And even have an Ambien on a night if you know your mind is racing, if that would -
THERAPIST: An hour of sleep is not good for you.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 10:59).
THERAPIST: Even four isn't -
THERAPIST: Well, there may also be it may not just be coincidence that yesterday was the day where you decided unconsciously to have four cups of coffee either. The staying up at night has been a retreat for you, too, and if there's a lot of feeling going on yesterday, maybe there's a part of you just longing for an excuse to stay up, and get cozy, and be near your computer and a show.
THERAPIST: No?
THERAPIST: Racing?
THERAPIST: Oh, you did.
THERAPIST: Okay. I thought that was the first contact.
THERAPIST: You've alluded to, before, to feeling like the kind of Assyrian woman you'd be attractive to is attracted to American, very, very Americanized.
THERAPIST: moving back to a conservative -
THERAPIST: old school.
THERAPIST: sort of thing?
THERAPIST: There's an incredible amount of stress, and tension, and anxiety, and trauma that causes anxiety in your history, Brian. I mean I think you carry around so much tension of all that's ever been inside you in a physical way, and then sometimes you get anxious about noticing those symptoms when those symptoms -
THERAPIST: Yeah. It just makes some sense that you're on guard and we were talking about PTSD. That's part of a hyper-vigilant tense preparedness for something bad happening is part of that range of symptoms, and it literally has a bodily component.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That never works.
THERAPIST: Well, you also don't have built up inside you really soothing healthfully soothing figures just living inside you from your childhood. I picture your dad, and you loved him and idealized him in many ways, but also the image of handling things is clamping down stoicism. Smoking a cigarette and having a drink, which actually really isn't that helpful for his health. [00:21:18]
THERAPIST: What are things that are ordinary but I think sometimes make you feel like you're alone, the only one dealing with this stuff.
THERAPIST: Because you feel that way today and yesterday.
THERAPIST: Or -
THERAPIST: You did that yesterday. Of course you're feeling stressed out yesterday, Brian, and today. And you actually haven't been feeling this way for a lot of the time lately.
THERAPIST: No. [00:26:01]
THERAPIST: Even though part you're not even believing that. There's those two minds going on about it.
THERAPIST: The hardwired thing is that it's you, and you're the one who's rejectable. Even though I know you know that's not the story, but that's part of the idea of being back alone is oh, I'm never going to be with anybody, and it's just me and there must be something about me. [00:27:02]
THERAPIST: Like you're not going to ever fit anywhere or something. [00:27:54]
THERAPIST: It's so striking how it goes there.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
THERAPIST: And a trip you've hardly told me anything about.
THERAPIST: Say more?
THERAPIST: Say more?
THERAPIST: The decision even to move, you mean?
THERAPIST: How did you it was for a girl?
THERAPIST: That was why?
THERAPIST: And she was from Oregon?
THERAPIST: You hadn't met, you just were Facebooking, or texting?
THERAPIST: Or what? No?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well...
THERAPIST: E-mailing? Letters?
THERAPIST: Handwritten letters?
THERAPIST: Oh, my goodness. So how'd you find her?
THERAPIST: Sobbing, you mean? Or having a panic attack?
THERAPIST: What would you do when you would?
THERAPIST: It was helpful. [00:32:55]
THERAPIST: What just happened? Why'd you say anyway?
THERAPIST: Or there's a courage to go, but there's not a framework for thinking also about what you're leaving behind.
THERAPIST: And then what needs to be done to make going feel really good and possible. [00:37:03]
THERAPIST: to even bring that up? [00:39:07]
THERAPIST: Sad and scary.
THERAPIST: What did you tell your family was why you were going, for this girl?
THERAPIST: So they knew that?
THERAPIST: And how'd they respond?
THERAPIST: Then it really feels like your father's death hit as a total trauma.
THERAPIST: To the whole family.
THERAPIST: Everyone.
THERAPIST: So not only are you getting derailed and they're getting derailed, but then because they're derailed, you can't even be helped with your own state. There's no one.
THERAPIST: Yeah. When I asked how they responded to your saying you were going across the country, it wasn't even from a place of judgment.
THERAPIST: I didn't know if they could say, "Oh, no, please don't go," and beg you to stay because they need you. They could say, "Sounds great. We support you. We'll buy you a plane ticket home." [00:44:07]
THERAPIST: That's good for you.
THERAPIST: Brian, next week on Friday, something is taking me out of the office a little unexpectedly. I usually like to give more notice than this.
THERAPIST: But we could do a third session on Wednesday. I don't know what your Wednesday is like.
THERAPIST: I'm trying to, because I know we just had an interrupted week. So it'll give us three -
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. I have 1:00 on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Does that work?
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you want me to write it down?
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: Monday at 10:00 still for now. Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I just wanted to know if you wanted something better.
THERAPIST: You, too.
THERAPIST: Cold out?
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) you?
THERAPIST: Until that, her disappearing, it sounds like you were able to say to her ...She really pulled back in this exchange.
THERAPIST: You were able to say...
THERAPIST: Doesn't quite work for me.
THERAPIST: Oh.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: It wasn't what you were assessing so far about her?
THERAPIST: You hadn't been calling her a psycho all along?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Well you're also asking her if she could communicate with you a little bit more about what's inside her.
THERAPIST: Which is a kind of, working on the relationship some. It's so different then, from the world's while lack of someone being on a pedestal where they can sort of do no wrong, it's new territory to say "Actually she's going to do things that bother you sometimes and you may do things that bother her sometimes and to talk to each other about it, work it through, is just really different."
THERAPIST: To come out the other side and it feels good, In fact you might even feel closer because you had this....
THERAPIST: Where it's scaring her?
THERAPIST: Says a lot.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: What was wrong?
THERAPIST: Oh, wow.
THERAPIST: It actually doesn't sound physical.
THERAPIST: Of course she's going to have heart palpitations.
THERAPIST: Oh, hmm.
THERAPIST: She's having a hard time?
THERAPIST: Did she ever go talk to somebody?
THERAPIST: Yeah?
THERAPIST: You okay?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:13:44]
THERAPIST: That's not your job day in and day out.
THERAPIST: You did take care of her.
THERAPIST: I can see having mixed feelings about this kind of thing though because in a way it makes sense that she's seventy-two, is that right?
THERAPIST: You are taking care of your own beginning to ail patient, your mother, but you've also been the one taking care of everybody else and not taking care of so much for a long time, so I think it makes it more complicated to start to be there for her in this way.
THERAPIST: When you weren't totally feeling like she was there for you...
THERAPIST: When you were younger.
THERAPIST: You know, we were talking at the end of last week about your trip to Oregon.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It feels appropriate right now.
THERAPIST: What an understandable thought though or even fantasy or wish.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: When was this? [00:23:12]
THERAPIST: You think around a week ago so it was after things had gone kind of weird with Kelly?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Maybe she'd said she wants to cook you dinner?
THERAPIST: She told you that a day before?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: You don't know when you wrote it?
THERAPIST: That's a Monday?
THERAPIST: I think, no.
THERAPIST: Saturday?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it was Saturday?
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: This is a different dream?
THERAPIST: Yeah I remember you saying that.
THERAPIST: So a lot of detail?
THERAPIST: You got off?
THERAPIST: Wow.
THERAPIST: Yeah, there's a lot of strength and (inaudible) kind of taking matters into your own hands.
THERAPIST: Like a metaphor for this journey too?
THERAPIST: There's a lot happening.
THERAPIST: Even just kind of individuating, separating from your parents, from your past emotionally, that's what you're describing with your relationship with your mother over this weekend and her stating...You said I kind of did what felt good to me.
THERAPIST: Instead of getting sucked in to her vortex.
THERAPIST: What do you make of your parents getting divorced?
THERAPIST: That's what I wonder when you say half-jokingly, like what, meaning?
THERAPIST: Loud. What would happen in the argument?
THERAPIST: Did he ever scare you?
THERAPIST: Kind of?
THERAPIST: Shove you?
THERAPIST: I wonder if it's hard to talk about her, hard to remember? Your language is so vague.
THERAPIST: Kind of try to get...
THERAPIST: And kind of try meaning she would miss? You'd run away?
THERAPIST: Swat?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: At the time on the surface it was supposedly about you, he was frustrated with you about something?
THERAPIST: Do you remember what?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Do you remember what they'd fight about?
THERAPIST: And do you remember her ever getting mad at him?
THERAPIST: It upset her?
THERAPIST: But not times where she'd be the one coming at him about frustration with him or something too much?
THERAPIST: She might or she might not have?
THERAPIST: Sometimes fighting is always, comes from one to the other parent.
THERAPIST: Exploding at each other?
THERAPIST: Did you ever wish they would get divorced?
THERAPIST: You said it was scary to imagine that?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That doesn't mean though... you still could still be taken care of well (inaudible due to background noise) Sometimes people...
THERAPIST: Oh.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's too late.
THERAPIST: The panic attack was while having dinner?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: So we'll continue Wednesday, one o'clock?
THERAPIST: Great.
THERAPIST: See you then.
THERAPIST: Instead of every session?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: I was wondering what you mean when you say, it sounds obvious but I actually don't know exactly what you mean when you say you're having trouble concentrating. What happens? [00:02:21]
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: I think that's part of what's important, to you, that may work for them but for you it does feel like there are things that you are really wanting to do and devote yourself to that is very hard to get yourself to do, to actually do.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Learn to bowl?
THERAPIST: And even then it's questionable. I mean there was so much going on around you.
THERAPIST: When you were a teenager?
THERAPIST: Why did you sleep on the floor?
THERAPIST: So now I'm trying to follow because you said just the other day "I sat down to write a song and I wrote a song and it was a good song."
THERAPIST: You did something?
THERAPIST: You've said that!
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Some things are getting completed and even it feels like past and present are getting a little completed right now because it feels like you're actually talking about you when you were 23, right now, or ten years ago. Not you right now whose the Kickstarter, got your record done, just sat down and wrote a song in one sitting, has had a book published.
THERAPIST: It's almost like the old feelings about yourself are still kind of haunting and present in your life and that's actually not what's happening right now?
THERAPIST: Yeah but also, you are actively trying to pursue two arts on the side without kind of unlimited wealth resources in your family background to support them and not getting paid for them.
THERAPIST: So that is a struggle.
THERAPIST: But your friends might have their forty thousand dollar job and then they go home and watch Fringe.
THERAPIST: They're not trying to then put out a record and write another book.
THERAPIST: That's a lot of work to not be paid for right away. The hope maybe is you get paid for it long term in the arts, right? That's a lot of work to get done. A lot of people wouldn't do work without getting paid.
THERAPIST: What were you going to say?
THERAPIST: And not beat themselves up for it. It's my hobby.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: You said that?
THERAPIST: You knew?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: In a way...
THERAPIST: Right. Lesser than...
THERAPIST: It becomes so apparent that criticism is a defense.
THERAPIST: Terrible insecurity about her own self that's peaked when she' s looked at this photo.
THERAPIST: She knocks her down in some way.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Or Brian, the other interpretation of it is no wonder you tell yourself you're so bad at motivating, concentrating.
THERAPIST: I think they're both true some...in other words if you're constantly spending time in your head beating yourself up for how you're lesser than everybody else, that's going to impede your actual concentration and focus.
THERAPIST: And enjoyment. Exactly.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: And feel fine with that.
THERAPIST: There is such a running track of your mother's voice inside that just, even ordinariness gets criticized and extraordinariness gets criticized even. She sees a stunning girl and immediately finds something to critique about it. She would do that with any single person's photo you could have given her.
THERAPIST: And you do that to yourself.
THERAPIST: Like it can't just be "Who did this thing?" Immediately something "Wait you're not doing it enough or well enough or long enough..." and it's not, of course as I say that, when that voice is there so strong it does get in the way. You know when you say "Eight or nine years for this album." That's something, that's important right? It did take a while, maybe longer than you wished it had but part of the reason that is that you've been spending so much time getting beaten up inside. You get depressed if that voice is loud enough.
THERAPIST: (laughs) [00:23:35]
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: It's your mother.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: That's like if they want to be here and I'm not worth that much they can't be that great either.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: You can tell the story of these exchanges with your mother getting it, kind of lighthearted and laughing at the absurdity of it but it's really kind of heartbreaking.
THERAPIST: I mean in the moment you're really not that reactive and that might even feel good, you have distance from it, it's not immediately...
THERAPIST: Well and also in a place where you may be starting to feel all the feeling that is stopping, getting stopped up in your throat.
THERAPIST: What do you do with that in the moment?
THERAPIST: What do you do? It doesn't go very well if you tell her ?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's what I meant about feeling good. Not...I know it can feel bad all that feeling but you don't sound like she could say something like that to you and then you're immediately brought back in to the old stuff.
THERAPIST: Right. Totally different reaction.
THERAPIST: Huge.
THERAPIST: You so held on to your own mind.
THERAPIST: You weren't just permeated by hers. You had yourself. What you think about her. What you feel about her. What you feel with her.
THERAPIST: Even when she says something like "Well I hope she doesn't get chased after."
THERAPIST: That's so heartbreaking Brian. I know it' s one moment right now but to imagine then what's been said to you...
THERAPIST: All along. She's saying to you "She's better than you."
THERAPIST: Then her own son. It's one thing even to have that neurosis play out with her and her sister but to her own son?
THERAPIST: It's brutal.
THERAPIST: I mean talk about another whole set of layers of inhibitions against settling down and having a life with someone.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: It's immediately how it's not good enough. [00:36:41]
THERAPIST: Everything.
THERAPIST: (laughs) So that makes two?
THERAPIST: It's so absurd it's easy to laugh cause it's that extreme and over the top it's...
THERAPIST: It's really, really devastating.
THERAPIST: You're a very, very good story, dialogue story teller, back and forth.
THERAPIST: You didn't think enough of yourself to think that it mattered.
THERAPIST: So tomorrow?
THERAPIST: Right?
THERAPIST: 12:50?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Great.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: I wonder why?
THERAPIST: That would make a lot of sense if there's something emotionally you start feeling stuck and broken inside, is it something about this video, this story I would guess? It's not just a generic good cry but something about that story let you get in touch with something.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you were feeling all week.
THERAPIST: Wonder what about this story?
THERAPIST: What were you going to say?
THERAPIST: Puts you to shame?
THERAPIST: That's a lot of feeling.
THERAPIST: You remember you were here Wednesday of last week you didn't allude to feeling exhausted at all that day. You didn't seem it, a lot of stuff came up on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: I mean all different aspects of getting in to...
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: So you remember having, that you had been feeling that way?
THERAPIST: Depressed?
THERAPIST: When was it that your mother, you showed her the photo of Kelly to your mom? Do you remember when that was?
THERAPIST: You told me Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Because I have to wonder if that, what you told me about Wednesday was not with you as a piece of what...
THERAPIST: It was so much Brian. I mean I was floored by, in the here and now, things you were relaying she had said to you that weekend and I don't know how that wouldn't have been like a punch in the stomach and you were handling it, but how could there not be? You have a different set of eyes now and ears to hear and think about what she's saying to you that makes it now, it's just a heavy weight when this actually happens now.
THERAPIST: What do you do with those feelings?
THERAPIST: Ouch.
THERAPIST: Ouch.
THERAPIST: Well it's a very good question what you'd do with all the feelings you're staring to have as things happen and you see them for what they are now.
THERAPIST: Can you say more about what the feelings are though? What do you feel?
THERAPIST: When she compliments or thanks you, is appreciative of your uncle and not you?
THERAPIST: Angry at?
THERAPIST: And what you were talking about last week was the photo and all the exchange around the photo. It wasn't just about the past. Do you know what I mean? She's actually saying things in the present that are very, very critical.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If it's a rare comment that comes from something...
THERAPIST: Yeah what about that is hard to stay with how I felt, wanting to defend her and protect her?
THERAPIST: When you're with me you are.
THERAPIST: Focused on the absurdity.
THERAPIST: When you're by yourself you complain.
THERAPIST: It's harder to feel what you felt watching this movie when you're here?
THERAPIST: I wonder why?
THERAPIST: What if it would help?
THERAPIST: What if it would help?
THERAPIST: Another place where the couch can help?
THERAPIST: Again it's just a tool but that's also one of the things sometimes it can do. You can find feelings in here without someone staring at you. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Wow. So not just a locally based thing you're saying?
THERAPIST: Wow!
THERAPIST: Are you considering not saying yes?
THERAPIST: I think that' s a piece of what's changed so much Brian in the last number of years and rapidly in the last...since we've started this, is your capacity to do that.
THERAPIST: To channel it now into ways that are healthy for you instead of self-destructive most of the time.
THERAPIST: its enormous capacity to just grow.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: And actually to find it when you're able to be honest with each other about sometimes when difficult things, getting your first fight, work it out, that the relationship, even the physical side of things, actually grows.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: First issue that you have to explore each other...
THERAPIST: No yelling, screaming.
THERAPIST: I wonder if Wednesday was too much?
THERAPIST: Maybe you're just like...and we laughed about saying mental health break or taking mental health days, maybe you needed a break from here on Thursday?
THERAPIST: You know, I think I may have said this before, could've been years ago, there's a psychoanalyst, psychiatrist whose well known around town, died a number of years ago but remained a legend in the area who described the process of therapy basically as acknowledging, baring and putting it into perspective as a three stage process.
THERAPIST: I bring that up right now because I think what used to happen for you is you would acknowledge and it would fly you into a panic and it would be totally deregulating what you would start to get to know about...and you've been increasingly finding a way on the outside, even if just finding perspective around it and I think that's what you're describing feels so important to you that you can say "It is what it is." [00:30:58] In some ways that's telling oneself to put it in perspective. The only thing I'm bringing up is that in here I think sometimes you also want to jump over from acknowledging, jump over baring and into putting it in perspective . That the baring part is hard.
THERAPIST: Right?
THERAPIST: And if we only land in perspective without ever having gone through how bad it feels, what you have come to know, it's a shaky container.
THERAPIST: Well if you've never really mourned and grieved and gotten angry or...so that you know it, know it in your bones and affectively, it's a different kind of knowing, it's more like a muscling through the perspective, which is so adapted that I think works for you a lot of the times out there.
THERAPIST: Where are you at?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: And you're saying it actually could be helpful, this time it unstuck something?
THERAPIST: Like for you to find the feeling.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So you're doing work in baring it?
THERAPIST: By yourself?
THERAPIST: There are times in here where it looks like it's going to but then you stop, it's like you're clamping down.
THERAPIST: And you'll say "Ah, but whatever." Dismiss away from it.
THERAPIST: Does it mean something? I wonder what it means to just have the feeling in here?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: (laughs) You're looking for like permission to?
THERAPIST: Absolve your guilt or something?
THERAPIST: And you've communicated that?
THERAPIST: Why would you feel guilty?
THERAPIST: Although if she heard you when you met someone new who you met on...you get caught in the context, (inaudible)
THERAPIST: So your motivation then meeting her sounds like it would be more like a networking?
THERAPIST: Even here?
THERAPIST: You can feel fragile, uncertain. You could feel alone even when you're here. That's why I asked you about actually crying and the fact that it only happens in the most vulnerable way, alone.
THERAPIST: Not with company.
THERAPIST: That's a start.
THERAPIST: I wanted to mention to you a time change possibly if you wanted it although it would require a day change and I don't know how you'd feel about it so if you need to think about it...
THERAPIST: I have one o'clock on Wednesdays opening up.
THERAPIST: We'd do Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, so it would be all three in a row.
THERAPIST: That would work?
THERAPIST: Okay, okay, so starting next week do you want to do that?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: For Wednesday?
THERAPIST: Okay, absolutely.
THERAPIST: Okay so the week after starting Wednesday the 20th?
THERAPIST: Great. Okay. That works.
THERAPIST: 1, 12:50 and 11:30.
THERAPIST: Yes and soon the 11:30 is going to change to 3:10 (laughs). Lot of changes, I know this is getting confusing with the schedule.
THERAPIST: Okay so we'll stick with Thursday, Friday this week and then start the new one next week.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Those darn women.
THERAPIST: It's not that comfortable.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:00:35]
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: Inaudible) [00:00:57]
THERAPIST: It's been hot in here. I'm turning this up. (ph) [00:01:05]
THERAPIST: I don't know what it's like outside.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
THERAPIST: First time in a while.
THERAPIST: That's all it was?
THERAPIST: You were by yourself.
THERAPIST: How does the (inaudible) turn out? (Cross talk) Given your dream.
THERAPIST: In America it would.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Smoothed the way or something.
THERAPIST: Smoothed the way.
THERAPIST: For you to get a ride.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Because the lady who is helping you. [00:05:58 [00:06:02]
THERAPIST: You had a dream a week or so ago about-were you on a ship?
THERAPIST: Coming up to the port and there was a city (cross talk) ... you've had other dreams about it.
THERAPIST: City (inaudible)
THERAPIST: You said that about that dream, too.
THERAPIST: That you were, it was beautiful.
THERAPIST: Un huh.
THERAPIST: They're both stories of being in strange places but, and being maybe without your (inaudible) but being helped and it's okay. [00:07:12]
THERAPIST: Almost like tolerating more uncertainty and strangeness ...
THERAPIST: This was just last night?
THERAPIST: Still young for retirement (inaudible) [00:10:02]
THERAPIST: You're just now beginning to believe it.
THERAPIST: You're day's not over when you leave your job.
THERAPIST: Like moving into other realms of work.
THERAPIST: But I also think you are picking up on something. You keep coming back to in here. It may even be highlighted when you're here. In here. Is a feeling there's something, there is something that sounds like it's more than just being busy.
THERAPIST: That feels like unsettled or agitated, a little disoriented.
THERAPIST: I do and I don't.
THERAPIST: I get that theory.
THERAPIST: It did make you feel better to send it out.
THERAPIST: Did it make you feel more antsy?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: See, that's what I was wondering a little bit. The way you describe music and the idea of just being in it.
THERAPIST: Then I think that's what's hard to capture for you in most of the rest of your waking like. That takes different forms but you've described it even with Kelly for example where instead of just enjoying the evening with her ...
THERAPIST: ... there are times you could be constantly outside yourself monitoring-is the sex good? Is she having fun? Is she, is this conversation okay? That isn't about being just in it, just being yourself in it and not thinking about it, just doing it, doing the evening.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah,
THERAPIST: Totally, totally.
THERAPIST: Better enough now that you can put it into words. And that says something to even just be able to talk about it.
THERAPIST: So, I mean in a way you're speaking that there (inaudible) that have actually changed quite dramatically and you are finding more comfort. The (inaudible) layers of (cross talk) [00:17:44] and [00:17:51]
THERAPIST: Oh.
THERAPIST: Sebald sounds familiar.
THERAPIST: Oh, yes.
THERAPIST: So, do you mean like it would trigger you, like, inspirationally trigger or trigger your anxiety about why am I not doing this in self-criticism?
THERAPIST: Humph.
THERAPIST: So, what's stopping you?
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: It's not just ADD.
THERAPIST: It's not. ‘Cause it's been changing (inaudible). Even the fact that you sent poems out. That's all fell within all these kinds of things you have not done for a very long time. [00:20:51]
THERAPIST: When we started touching on, the readings for example, the feeling that you can sort of poke at everybody else there and put them down as long as you're not the one reading, but what's it feel like when you put yourself out there and someone is doing that to you. Like that there is a lot of more tremendous conflict (ph) [00:21:46]
THERAPIST: I know my judgment ... (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Okay. It's mostly a writer you say.
THERAPIST: I know you (inaudible) as far as put me downs."
THERAPIST: So, how could you not be towards your own self?
THERAPIST: I mean to actually then start writing means there's something there that's worthy or not.
THERAPIST: You criticize or not.
THERAPIST: Especially if it's biographical.
THERAPIST: It's like opening your heart up.
THERAPIST: It's not disguised.
THERAPIST: Kind of like that's all there is (cross talk) [00:24:34]
THERAPIST: (cross talk) ... go.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And so also does not make it feel like ADHD. You could do it before your father died.
THERAPIST: That's what you were saying.
THERAPIST: For a number of different reasons that sounds like it got really exploded inside, as a trauma, of a feeling when your dad died of something about losing him...
THERAPIST: A while ago.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) I can answer but I'm so curious like why do your thoughts go there? [00:30:39]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:31:33]
THERAPIST: And what do you imagine? It sounds like there's something...
THERAPIST: Embarrassing. What, what ...
THERAPIST: So maybe you are playing it safe in here, too.
THERAPIST: In here.
THERAPIST: You know, answering you intellectually, that one of the more proven forms that's helpful with integrating traumatic experiences is exposure to it, so it means talking about it in detail in every last possible detail you can imagine which to me is part of the work of this, anyway. When people who are doing war trauma or sexual abuse trauma, rape trauma at some of the trauma-based centers around town, that's what they do. They literally go in and tell the story, over and over and over again and have full on affected explosion as it's happening and the idea is that in a safe place it gets known in memory in an integrated way into the whole self and it stops haunting a person so much. Even nightmares start to subside. But that's kind of what this is about, too. My fantasy goes, I was actually thinking about this before you brought up the group that I was lost in thought thinking about when you might feel comfortable being on the couch and actually think that could help. I think it would feel different and might feel less safe.
THERAPIST: See what I mean?
THERAPIST: There are, yes, there are grief, in other words, finding something that's general, a more general trauma-based group, they're probably out there? I don't know as much ...
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean I'm sure they're there, but I just don't know if it would feel odd if for example three of the people in the room were talking about having been sexually abused as a child, if that was the focus. It might not feel like quite the right thing. There are general psychotherapy groups. So, not theme-focused, but general groups that have been called a process group where it's about being with other people and what is it like when you're with other people and you start talking about your life and start being a person and you actually get feedback from other people, not therapists but another person who says, ‘ya know, when you do this it kind of annoys me' or ‘I really wish you would talk more,' you know, whatever is the-people start (cross talk) [00:35:46]
THERAPIST: No? (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Well, I don't know. That's why there is an intellectual response. The other things I started wondering about is just your saying, ‘is this too safe?' You know?
THERAPIST: Is there another (cross talk) [00:36:09]
THERAPIST: So that your mind gets to wander safely a little bit more in space and find things that sometimes surprise you that you don't find sitting in social banter.
THERAPIST: Okay. What do you think it would be like?
THERAPIST: But, even doing it has meaning, too, for people. I mean, just lying down, you know, being over there. Not being able to see.
THERAPIST: I think it could be very helpful.
THERAPIST: It sounds familiar.
THERAPIST: I wonder how they really seem about the couch. Is that like me making you better or is that you?
THERAPIST: I don't think those things are going to help you.
THERAPIST: I don't think that the problem isn't even intellectual.
THERAPIST: I'm just hearing they're saying to everyone to stay off the roads, don't even to work tomorrow, that kind of thing, but I will be here for first half of the day.
THERAPIST: I have an opening at 9:50, because either my card, but if you'd want to touch base in the morning I don't think I'll fill it at this point anyway, or you could just keep 11:30 if that works for you.
THERAPIST: If you want to. Yeah, yeah. I will definitely call you if for some reason I feel like I can't be here or ...
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes.
THERAPIST: We're doing, are we doing Wednesday? Next week? Or are we going to switch to Wednesday?
THERAPIST: Oh, that's right. You told me that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so we'll do Thursday and Friday next week and then the following Monday (inaudible) [00:42:55]
THERAPIST: See you tomorrow.
THERAPIST: (Laughing) What?
THERAPIST: No. That's nutritions, a suite of nutritionists.
THERAPIST: I'm curious of who you're, what are you seeing.
THERAPIST: Young.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:00:47]
THERAPIST: Is it?
THERAPIST: The wind is supposed to be (cross talk)
THERAPIST: ... really, really bad tonight. (inaudible) hurricane force, (cross talk)
THERAPIST: ...hurricane force winds. (Laughs) Overnight.
THERAPIST: Do you lose power in major storms?
THERAPIST: Does your house lose power sometimes in major storms?
THERAPIST: Not too much.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...members (ph) I mean I got your message saying that's what had happened, that's why you were (cross talk) [00:01:58]
THERAPIST: It reminded me somehow that you, just hearing your message thinking about the police coming to your door and I just wondered if there was some (cross talk) (inaudible) later that felt a little traumatic. [00:02:32]
THERAPIST: That is repetition, banging the door.
THERAPIST: (inaudible cross talk) didn't know. [00:03:05]
THERAPIST: It's hard to live paycheck to paycheck.
THERAPIST: And that's very stressful.
THERAPIST: That would be huge.
THERAPIST: This.
THERAPIST: It's a lot of work to get there.
THERAPIST: Why are you eliminating tutoring? I forget why. Tutoring seems to ...
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like it was worth it to you.
THERAPIST: That's not you.
THERAPIST: Humph.
THERAPIST: What other things? Music. Writing.
THERAPIST: Or writing.
THERAPIST: Poetry.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's unheard of.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:15:27]
THERAPIST: Three months teaching.
THERAPIST: I wouldn't know what their experience was, but your question doesn't sound weird to ask somebody in the field.
THERAPIST: ...tips on, yeah.
THERAPIST: It's hard for you to believe you could
THERAPIST: ... teach that.
THERAPIST: Like that doesn't fit together with your reading someone else's poetry or prose and you're saying, ‘why (inaudible) put this together (cross talk) [00:17:20]
THERAPIST: There's a mind and a critic and (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Well, also they wouldn't be kids.
THERAPIST: They could be even older than you.
THERAPIST: Or your age or you know, just under, not college students who may also feel serious enough about it. This isn't just some prereq they're filling to graduate.
THERAPIST: Big poets who were at the university you mean?
THERAPIST: So those ... (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Entre into that.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) (cross talk)
THERAPIST: That your parents sent you to ...
THERAPIST: All over Europe or somewhere in particular?
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
THERAPIST: It was the three of you went on bikes ...
THERAPIST: Did she leave a number?
THERAPIST: I think it felt sort of magical.
THERAPIST: And where did you fly into?
THERAPIST: Frankfurt. And went ...
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: It's funny. It's kind of reminding me of your dreams of cities, approaching cities and boats and ...
THERAPIST: You're not only shy.
THERAPIST: Not to be (cross talk)
THERAPIST: At that point again?
THERAPIST: How old were you when the injury, that injury happened? It was not long before (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:33:11]
THERAPIST: So it meant he really couldn't do what he had been doing.
THERAPIST: You mean to make money?
THERAPIST: He couldn't do what he was doing before.
THERAPIST: What do you imagine if he'd bought it and then he died?
THERAPIST: He was saying this (inaudible) to your mom? [00:36:17]
THERAPIST: You were in the conversation.
THERAPIST: And your sense is that your uncle did want to do it?
THERAPIST: You wish your dad had done it.
THERAPIST: Oh, yes.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Some way he could maintain that even working very hard physically in a factory, or whatever (cross talk)
THERAPIST: That sounds like it doesn't feel that way in the family about being publically selling something ...
THERAPIST: You said that when I brought up selling Starbucks one time, like absolutely not. (Laughs) Am I doing anything like that?
THERAPIST: But it was retail.
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: He also didn't come here and go into that.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:43:09]
THERAPIST: Maybe he didn't feel like (inaudible) a man somehow. [00:43:28]
THERAPIST: It would cost.
THERAPIST: Till Thursday.
THERAPIST: (Laughs).
THERAPIST: Have a good trip.
THERAPIST: Did you bring me up to Friday? (Cross talk)
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, ah no, it's fine.
THERAPIST: Thank you, you too.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Good-bye.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: I saw they plowed out a bunch more.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:00:46]
THERAPIST: Nothing. How are you? It's been a week.
THERAPIST: You're pretty sure?
THERAPIST: Pretty sure you don't remember?
THERAPIST: You thought you had to undercut it with a joke?
THERAPIST: (Chuckle)
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
THERAPIST: Words may not come as easily. You're saying there are actions there that are ...
THERAPIST: Flat Stanley (Laughs)
THERAPIST: You took it on your phone.
THERAPIST: Which is different in (inaudible) [00:08:34]
THERAPIST: There is a cautiousness about ...(cross talk)
THERAPIST: Are you worried that it kind of wasn't long enough?
THERAPIST: And it could happen if you didn't (cross talk) ...[00:10:07]
THERAPIST: You're going to do a reading?
THERAPIST: It's not a lecture.
THERAPIST: And it's just you and the moderator or there'll be other ...
THERAPIST: ... poets or writers ...
THERAPIST: Humph, wow. Of course, that's a little nerve wracking.
THERAPIST: How to what?
THERAPIST: I was just talking about what's in (cross talk) [00:16:52]
THERAPIST: And they were professional cBrianonists?
THERAPIST: It's a company, rather than ...
THERAPIST: ... like an individual artist's loft space.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah. An artistic ...
THERAPIST: Would you?
THERAPIST: She had a very different kind of support.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That there may be more.
THERAPIST: There's not so much above or below.
THERAPIST: You feel like you're a person amongst people.
THERAPIST: That's a big change.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but when a connotation of whippershaps like someone who's very young and getting very successful and pushing quickly into something makes you feel, there's some feeling that seeing somebody who's, it doesn't matter what they do really, 28 and pushing hard and young and successful, that's the feeling you're talking about, right?
THERAPIST: I mean it's so understandable. When you say you'd left your 20s, where did your 20s go?
THERAPIST: In a daze.
THERAPIST: But you were saying lately could be the point you might have been when you were (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:28:26]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: His dad taught him?
THERAPIST: It's not (cross talk) something you want to get rid of. [00:30:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess the difference here is jealousy is a kind of mild, fleeting feeling as opposed to envy which is a deeper, more, almost has, carries destructiveness in it. You know?
THERAPIST: [No].
THERAPIST: I mean maybe, there may be linguistic ...
THERAPIST: ... differences ...
THERAPIST: ... at least in my, the analytic world and is thought of as much more ...
THERAPIST: Yeah, and carries with it almost a ...
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yes. You want to even destroy the thing that you want so badly and you can't have ...
THERAPIST: ... that you even get destructive about it.
THERAPIST: Which is different than, ‘oh, I'm jealous.'
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:32:01]
THERAPIST: Which is not what you were feeling with him. You were saying this is something I might have wanted and I didn't get it and I have feelings about that. But you still could be happy for him ...
THERAPIST: ...that he had it, as a good person that was successful.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Getting to the place where you wish you could be and music is much, much, much harder than getting to the place where those 20 year olds are in a production company.
THERAPIST: They're totally different.
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: But, they're, it's not as competitive.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:35:12]
THERAPIST: It's so huge to be having this change (inaudible) Brian (sp?) because I think even where we were last time you were here a week ago, it might have been two weeks ago, actually, talking about the sequence of your mother's responding to the photo of Kelly and I know that's only one example in your history and it's happened multiple times but it came to me so clear the sequence of her own jealously moving into envy. "Wow, she's so beautiful," she starts off with and then she does move in to destroy the beauty. "Her mouth is so big." That's her own, she's incapable of tolerating her own insecurity in that story and has to destroy the photo, has to destroy Kelly and has done that even to you. She then goes and destroys you in the next comment about well, just hope guys don't chase after her. There's a tremendous amount of destructive envy in your family, in her side of the family. [00:35:33]
THERAPIST: Rather than be able to say, well of course parents sometimes feel jealous of their own children, they're getting to lead the life you never led or wished you could, but to be able to say, ‘okay, that's my stuff,' and still feel proud and so excited and so encouraging. You did not get that.
THERAPIST: You got squashed.
THERAPIST: It's not squashing you. Not anymore.
THERAPIST: Even if what's getting stirred is just sadness that you're (cross talk)
THERAPIST: And in fact, we don't want that not to get stirred. The more you are burying, we're talking about acknowledging and baring the feelings, that's you actually letting in how it feels to see a 28 year old whippersnapper and to know that could have been me at 28 if things had been different. It's really, really sad. But that the more I think you're acknowledging it, really baring that, it loses it's grasp in the present in a way. You've been getting freer and freer and freer to go be yourself.
THERAPIST: Well, last you were here something you were connecting much more pointedly to your dad dying and now you could kind of remember yourself being this very avid, prolific writer before and not after, that something got really stuck around the trauma of that that we have still yet to really get into.
THERAPIST: That's interesting.
THERAPIST: As though that's what's important.
THERAPIST: I know the name.
THERAPIST: Wow.
THERAPIST: The way you say ...
THERAPIST: Stuff you like ...
THERAPIST: The stuff like what you're thinking doing.
THERAPIST: They're capturing something.
THERAPIST: But it's not actually telling pages and pages of whole stories.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not going to charge you for yesterday. (cross talk)
THERAPIST: You know, do you remember that I have, I think I (inaudible) that I have a vacation policy of three weeks worth of sessions before after that you get charged. I'll just tack that onto, you hardly ever are not here on purpose anyway. [00:46:00]
THERAPIST: We're switching also to the new schedule starting next week?
THERAPIST: You mentioned you're reading was Wednesday. That's later in the day ...
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: So Monday at 10. Monday we're not meeting now.
THERAPIST: Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: And Friday at 11:30.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's the only thing that's changing.
THERAPIST: Our Fridays we'll change again soon starting in March but they'll go later.
THERAPIST: See you Wednesday at one.
THERAPIST: Yeah, how's it feel?
THERAPIST: I think you had mentioned it briefly.
THERAPIST: This is the 50th anniversary of his death? [00:01:20]
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: I don't think you told me details about it.
THERAPIST: Yes, now I remember that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I remember you saying that a little while ago.
THERAPIST: What's in the speech?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Gosh, that's a lot.
THERAPIST: Did you say to Sears?
THERAPIST: It's your life ticking onward, you know in this week and any one thing, something ordinary or daily routine, the daily pushing ahead but I can imagine how any one of these things could be ruffling your feathers some.
THERAPIST: Good?
THERAPIST: It's so incredibly moving. I think I'm struck as you're telling the story but you feel like you shouldn't have been feeling so much? Or something? [00:10:10]
THERAPIST: I'm also just struck because you're saying more about what the speech actually contained and how it sounded ...he is incredibly emotional in his speaking and speaking about opening one's eyes and hoping people will see the light, I sense is a metaphor and how painful seeing is, there's a lot of complexity in your relationship to even...he's as emotional if not more than you are and you hear him in this place begging for more knowing and seeing and understanding.
THERAPIST: That's huge too.
THERAPIST: it's another place where you're thinking about some idea, something in reality, your adult reality might support your life. It actually might be doable. (pause) Which can be a little scary. [00:15:37] And exciting.
THERAPIST: Maybe that's what still feels a little unclear, at least to me, is what is that? What's the reaction you're having?
THERAPIST: That's what I was just thinking.
THERAPIST: Or even there may be this kind of mild symptoms happening because there's a lot of feeling . Right now you're describing feeling anxious and excited, feeling like there's energy pulsing through you to get doing things and then it takes just a story like that to kind of concretize those feelings in something's...being afraid of what's going in your body, your chest or your head...
THERAPIST: That you've been traumatized by. [00:19:33]
THERAPIST: Hah!
THERAPIST: Protective of her?
THERAPIST: Interesting. What are your thoughts?
THERAPIST: That can happen but she's in your mind in a very particular story.
THERAPIST: You remembered the dream after a time of feeling traumatized about your band and death and...
THERAPIST: Afraid of losing people, including now Cecelia.
THERAPIST: You always talk about those kinds of existential feeling as though that's just kind of ordinary part of experience and you just have to be careful and try not to think about it too much. But there's a way...I also get the feeling that you've thought about that kind of thing a lot and had things gone differently...it's not that it wouldn't still occur to you but it might not be as preoccupying.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah but it's a feeling that your dad's death may sort of have solidified but does feel like it's been with you a very long time and feels more connected with just feeling vulnerable.
THERAPIST: So, so alone.
THERAPIST: And the idea of one dying at the end of a lonely life is sort of, it just feels like an extension of that existential permanent aloneness where had you not felt as alone as a little kid, I don't know that your mind would go there as much.
THERAPIST: Cecelia now appears though as this character in your dream where she's...how you were talking about her lately is someone you feel unconditionally loving towards and who you feel that from and that feeling...you often said "where is it coming from" "I've never felt this before" " I feel kind of gay feeling this kind of thing" but it's so real. Not feeling alone with her, feeling in the presence of someone you adore, something you adore, some critter you adore and who adores you back and that then being threatened as a loss. There's something about the dream as much as it's about losing that also feels like a sign of how tremendously attached you are to her.
THERAPIST: Cause in the end you find her.
THERAPIST: You aren't alone at the end of the dream.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: It's very, very new. Good changes and even if it means you're connected, you're saying you feel like you're connecting, it's new.
THERAPIST: It's actually being a whole person with normal contact instead of just preoccupied in your own mind.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: It's a change for us to have Wednesday instead of Monday, I was thinking about coming in...
THERAPIST: It is?
THERAPIST: So there's a day of the week and the meaning of Monday, the heaviness of Monday and there may also be something different about having Wednesday, Thursday, Friday instead of Monday, Thursday, Friday.
THERAPIST: Having that succession but then also having a longer break until the following week.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) That sounds like it will outweigh the break in a way. Yeah, it makes sense. [00:32:22] (pause) You may want to eventually pick up a fourth time possibly.
THERAPIST: For my internship yes.
THERAPIST: That was post-doc.
THERAPIST: Which was also (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well some feelings are also just hard if not impossible to process alone. I think that's part of what we've been talking about is your asking about what it would be like to cry, to sob here for example, instead of by yourself and I think the more you are exploring some feelings and more feelings open up. There's just a lot about all different thing right now, stirring, and they're less and less about the actual external life you're leading which is going along kind of fine. Like a hang up of 600 bucks. [00:35:12] In the grand scheme of what you had to get done falling 600 bucks short...it's not a big deal.
THERAPIST: Even though it might be hard to ask somebody for money but it's not a crisis.
THERAPIST: But it's connected to things that were once crises inside. (pause) [00:36:38] Where did your mind just go?
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: Who's coming?
THERAPIST: Everybody?
THERAPIST: Your mom too?
THERAPIST: Wow.
THERAPIST: That's a big deal, Brian.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's more what I mean, it actually feels like two separate worlds are coming together tonight and that the symbolic level of what's happening tonight is a pretty big deal.
THERAPIST: That's what I was thinking, to see you taken seriously.
THERAPIST: Of course.
THERAPIST: I find myself wondering if there...it could feel both like it's a tremendously big deal in reality that these worlds are finally coming together but that also then knowing that it doesn't undo for how long they've had to be kept apart. It doesn't get undone.
THERAPIST: And you know that.
THERAPIST: It's some feeling of letdown still, it happened and that it took until now and then this is just one reading and could've been part of a whole career, could've started years ago...
THERAPIST: Had you felt more believed in, in who you were all along. [00:42:20] (pause)
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: And saying exactly what right now? Like you won't do it because you'll get sick or what do you mean maybe there's a way you won't do it?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: Of course!
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: There's the old voice. [00:45:01]
THERAPIST: It's not so douchey that you didn't do it?
THERAPIST: You keep covering your mouth and nose?
THERAPIST: I was wondering that because you didn't say you were sick. The way you were...
THERAPIST: I've never seen you do that before.
THERAPIST: As a first experience to build your resume?
THERAPIST: That's great. (pause)
THERAPIST: To be continued tomorrow?
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Have fun tonight.
THERAPIST: No.
THERAPIST: Are you cold?
THERAPIST: Wow!
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness!
THERAPIST: That's so great!
THERAPIST: Congratulations!
THERAPIST: The focus was your poetry?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Maybe it was a big deal?
THERAPIST: In a way though it's funny you are describing a feeling that mattered to them while you were sitting there.
THERAPIST: It's a different kind of mattering?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: That's fantastic.
THERAPIST: In a way you're saying the fact that it mattered enough that people were riveted and really paying attention in some ways gives you even more courage to be even more yourself which might mean going more out on a line.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [00:10:16]
THERAPIST: it's not just being a poet but being a speaker also to a subject matter, a story teller.
THERAPIST: Which is really different then what you can put on paper.
THERAPIST: That's what was riveting people, as much as your poetry, I can imagine.
THERAPIST: Did your mom say anything?
THERAPIST: Does it make you feel proud?
THERAPIST: It's real.
THERAPIST: That really happened last night.
THERAPIST: (laughs) Oh my goodness!
THERAPIST: That's a compliment.
THERAPIST: I'm not quite sure though if you're taking it all in or not.
THERAPIST: I was wondering that.
THERAPIST: Did you ever hear back from Jason?
THERAPIST: You didn't? Hm.
THERAPIST: Okay. Huh.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: A tremendous amount of praise.
THERAPIST: That is almost like, I mean, the groove burned inside you is criticism to there's nowhere for that praise to settle yet, to make it be yours, to grow inside you.
THERAPIST: What do you do with it floating all around? (pause)
THERAPIST: Feeling like an adult?
THERAPIST: Amongst peers rather than like a child?
THERAPIST: Looking up to?
THERAPIST: That's huge too.
THERAPIST: Even that presence could...
THERAPIST: Oh yeah, anyone. Yeah.
THERAPIST: What was missing was having a sense of your own goodness, deep down. Talking with you makes it (inaudible) and the photo of Kelly, that's just one example of how what gets admired immediately is destroyed in another person and even in you. It doesn't leave room for your talents to be nourished from your childhood and to be took as something you can feel proud of and go do and be successful at.
THERAPIST: They get envied then destroyed and then loved and then envied and then destroyed and then loved and envied and then destroyed.
THERAPIST: Your mother playing out of something in her own psyche, in her relationship with her own internal objects, her parents somehow, it's gendered, it's very derogatory towards men and women in different ways. (pause) [00:24:01]
THERAPIST: It's not...it's taking time to understand, to settle in that this is you.
THERAPIST: That this is you, not...
THERAPIST: But this is you when you get to remember yourself with so much criticism and so many voices telling you it's not good enough.
THERAPIST: Embody?
THERAPIST: And friends?
THERAPIST: Your friends were there too?
THERAPIST: So all different corners of your life.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She knew your uncle, you're saying?
THERAPIST: Wow.
THERAPIST: Young?
THERAPIST: It can also bring together of not just two but many different worlds of yours in one place and finding a way of being all parts of you.
THERAPIST: Not having to be this part and edit this part out a little bit and then be this part and edit this part. It sounds like you were the whole combination of who you are in front of a whole room full of these people.
THERAPIST: Like the conversation with your mother it sounds like what feels good is holding on to your own mind even when there are other strong minds or opinions in the room.
THERAPIST: That for now this is what you think. You're going to share what you think and not just appease quickly.
THERAPIST: It's having more of your own self, having being solid.
THERAPIST: Interesting. (pause) [00:35:19]
THERAPIST: Hm.
THERAPIST: It felt like them not being there was part of...?
THERAPIST: These are Assyrian professors you're talking about?
THERAPIST: And you think it's...that's what I'm trying to understand. Is it just overlooking?
THERAPIST: It's a theme and I don't, I guess listening to you I don't know how much of it is your transference to them versus how it is in the culture versus how it actually is.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Because your mother did Brian, and that is a piece of what you carry inside you. The stories you started to tell me about the undercutting and undermining, unconsciously, not if you asked her if she was doing it, she'd say "No of course I'm not" but competitive with you, envious of you, unable to just simply be in a place of loving what you do and being so proud of you as her son.
THERAPIST: Maybe feeling jealous because she wishes she could start over again or something but not having that get in the way of loving and supporting you. In fact it would come out as little moments of destroying you. So I could imagine you could carry that, it actually happened with her, around and see that a lot of places and maybe it is happening some of that but maybe it's not too?
THERAPIST: Maybe the people who weren't there last night, not cause they didn't want to be.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the tiny percentage, you've spoken about that even culturally, that that's kind of in the family even that of course you're picking up on something that's there but it may not be there in some places too.
THERAPIST: Maybe the more again you see it might not be there, the more you get braver in going and saying "Hey want me to come give a talk?"
THERAPIST: "Here's my book!"
THERAPIST: "Let me know if you want me to come?"
THERAPIST: Yes it does.
THERAPIST: Tomorrow?
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: You too.
THERAPIST: (laughs) Is it warm out now?
THERAPIST: It's been on since morning.
THERAPIST: Why damn it?
THERAPIST: Why damn it?
THERAPIST: Why do you say damn it?
THERAPIST: Apparently not.
THERAPIST: Apparently not.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: You can feel how her own self defeat...
THERAPIST: And you can see it now and let it bounce off you more but as your kid or an adolescent...
THERAPIST: That would have to feel defeating of your accomplishment gets really minimized in the way she says it.
THERAPIST: Like it's not that big, you really haven't made it, good luck and I hope you did but I don't think you did...it's as though it didn't happen.
THERAPIST: I mean it reminds me of your saying yesterday how it's going to take a while for this to settle, it's going to take a while, it's going to take a while. She's not holding in her memory that it happened, that it was real, that it happened.
THERAPIST: It's as though she's still talking about "Well good luck I hope something happens."
THERAPIST: It's so enduring, this self-defeat, the defeatism of your family, it's not her...
THERAPIST: They're women?
THERAPIST: The other one that's your aunt the singer?
THERAPIST: You can hear it?
THERAPIST: For you.
THERAPIST: Sad for you. [00:08:40]
THERAPIST: You can do that now when you couldn't do that before?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's what you're saying is sad?
THERAPIST: How you thought about yourself for so long.
THERAPIST: I mean even in that is the tone of at the end of the day you're alone and what's the point in anything?
THERAPIST: What's it like to come here though back to where you started to come here feeling like you don't know what to say?
THERAPIST: And you know anxious about what?
THERAPIST: What's the type that just lays there?
THERAPIST: It's like the absence of the external update as much and you could feel like then there's nothing or there's so much it's hard to reach what...
THERAPIST: Your dad, your trip to Oregon, your move to Oregon, planning your trip.
THERAPIST: It does feel like a trip in my memory of...
THERAPIST: It feels so unintegrated and it's like this journey you went on...
THERAPIST: And you're back to reality.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Oh...
THERAPIST: She was 17 and you were 17?
THERAPIST: This is your mom's cousin?
THERAPIST: Your mom's first cousin, okay.
THERAPIST: It's her ex now? [00:14:11]
THERAPIST: And seeing her is like another little blast from the past?
THERAPIST: Pulled you back? Those very fuzzy periods.
THERAPIST: I mean you talk often about the stuckness around writing is part of your story and I think it gets stuck inside. It still feels like a trip.
THERAPIST: It's not storied yet. (pause) You've told me about her and you remember her in kind of a bubble in the story but not in a context of not where you were in your life, not what exactly it meant, and what it moved in to.
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: And she saw you, just noticed your style.
THERAPIST: How much older was she?
THERAPIST: She didn't know for a long time that you even had...
THERAPIST: So there's something in it for her too in a way even though she might not have...
THERAPIST: But also then confusing for you? I mean she was ten years older...
THERAPIST: Of course! [00:18:54]
THERAPIST: You wrote her a letter, your very quick to say "I was just too serious" dismissive again.
THERAPIST: What was insane when you say that?
THERAPIST: She was engaged already?
THERAPIST: Mm hm. It's this intensity of feeling without a lot of...it's kind of in a bubble, without a lot of the reality.
THERAPIST: Who she actually was, how old she was, how old you were...
THERAPIST: What's so interesting is that you didn't hear your mom saying that about you. You're going to grow up and be a heartbreaker?
THERAPIST: This is someone...it's semi-peer, semi-adult figure, saying you're great. "People are going to love you. I see this about you and I feel this about you."
THERAPIST: It must have felt good at that time.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: She was very important to you for a time.
THERAPIST: And you to her.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you wrote her this letter and then what happens from there?
THERAPIST: Who she's engaged to?
THERAPIST: Saying what?
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Oh...
THERAPIST: That's also unusual.
THERAPIST: That she had gone on clearly, not just you.
THERAPIST: That's a different...all you do is her?
THERAPIST: Where is that even coming from? Fake and two face?
THERAPIST: In front of other people?
THERAPIST: Did anyone say anything or did you say something back?
THERAPIST: Or did you leave?
THERAPIST: Your family what?
THERAPIST: And that's what she was yelling at about your family?
THERAPIST: How awful for you.
THERAPIST: She sounds a little bit borderline personality disorder, she's kind of needy and just complicated.
THERAPIST: So you know the reality is you didn't lose anyone in that group but still we also know you don't...in high school you know the reality is you had friends, the feeling of being alone or being unloved.
THERAPIST: It had to still happen even though it didn't change anything it actually...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There are also hints of a repetition of your relationship with your mother in that it feels like another traumatic reenactment of the feeling of unrequited love. And I don't mean romantic but just affection and fondness...
THERAPIST: You know it's coming from you unconditionally to her and then it's not...you get it for a second and then its slammed in your face as something critical or humiliating or...you know, and we talked about that as a pattern of even who you then gravitated towards from her on upwards about falling for somebody who in a way that's sort of what's going to happen.
THERAPIST: That's the script that's going to play out, that's not what's happening as much now but this is such an extreme scenario of the ultimate confrontation, humiliation in public.
THERAPIST: Even though it's clear it's actually not you, a lot of this, it's her.
THERAPIST: Ina way there is unrequited love in childhood but it can be handled in very different ways.
THERAPIST: You can be humiliated and rejected or you can be...have a parent say "I'm in love with you too."
THERAPIST: "I would love it if only we could get married" or something.
THERAPIST: But that expresses love but also a boundary that's very clear and the kid can feel like "Okay, at least she loves me still."
THERAPIST: Yeah, she treats you as though you're her peer kind of like...
THERAPIST: Exactly. She could say "This is so sweet and the nicest letter I've ever seen."
THERAPIST: "You'll find someone just like me one day."
THERAPIST: People are noticing.
THERAPIST: Something changing, freeing...[00:35:32] (pause) {00:37:00] Where'd you just go?
THERAPIST: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: I wonder if there's any chance there are obstacles inside to make you more money, somehow there are emotional ones?
THERAPIST: Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Or if you didn't have outstanding bills?
THERAPIST: Single people can live on that salary with no problem but you have these other things.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I wonder if it's hard to imagine being so free that you could lie down on the couch?
THERAPIST: You have a smirk.
THERAPIST: You have a smirk. (laughs)
THERAPIST: It might help. It might help with your anxiety about what to say as odd as it might feel more anxious at first but then it's just open. The field is open in a different way.
THERAPIST: What's it like for me to say that though? It was your reading between the lines? (laughs)
THERAPIST: It's never a have to and it doesn't mean it will help. It's just a tool.
THERAPIST: Mm hm. (pause) [00:45:15] So Brian next week, Friday is March already, I think you...
THERAPIST: (laughs) My schedule changes in March for the semester so that's when we can back to 3:10 if you want to do that?
THERAPIST: On Fridays.
THERAPIST: Is that better?
THERAPIST: I also have earlier times but...
THERAPIST: Okay and that should be permanent then until at least the summer.
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: I'll see you Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: You too.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
THERAPIST: Although today it maybe makes some sense that you were really, really worried about not being on time (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:01:18]
THERAPIST: When there's a lot on your mind, sure.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean you ask if it's a normal thing. I think it's so hard to tell exactly what it is yet, to know what's going on. It could be a lot of things. You, I mean you were, you mentioned in your message it's got to mean something I guess, not, not ...
THERAPIST: You also said that maybe you know when there are things you are thinking about or feeling that are, you don't want to think more about or (cross talk)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:03:04]
THERAPIST: Oh, you weren't?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: It's not like you (inaudible cross talk)
THERAPIST: But you also didn't set your alarm which is important, so even the night before (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:04:33]
THERAPIST: This was Tuesday night.
THERAPIST: So, now you think you just forgot.
THERAPIST: You wouldn't have been going out that late and you needed ... (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Um hmm. The mind is tricky.
THERAPIST: Like migraines.
THERAPIST: It could be that you're also saying in your association even on the phone was maybe there, maybe if there's anxiety or feelings about ‘what next' in here...
THERAPIST: If there isn't the same old usual things to talk about...
THERAPIST: ...then, either will there be nothing and will it be uncomfortable, or will there be something that you don't know is coming...
THERAPIST: ...somehow...
THERAPIST: ...that also could feel really, really anxiety provoking?
THERAPIST: Because that could be part of it, this time around.
THERAPIST: And it could feel scary or weird or...
THERAPIST: You said it in a kind of, ‘sure, I'll try that,' kind of like, as though it was going to happen rather than talking about it first.
THERAPIST: So, I could imagine that.
THERAPIST: Some (inaudible) of resistance. [00:10:19]
THERAPIST: Have you thought about that since at all?
THERAPIST: Did it cross your mind?
THERAPIST: A passing thought.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's all I mean. Was there a passing thought that had content to it, or?
THERAPIST: That could be a reason not to be here on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Slip over Wednesday and get to Thursday. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you know about what you think of...
THERAPIST: Where it feels a little bit more like it's like a drag, or is it something you have to check off the list kind of in your day? As opposed to ...
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Instead of the place where it used to just be, ‘okay, I'll go there and I'll feel better.'
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense.
THERAPIST: I do. And it, there's some, the feeling that if only, god, if you'd felt this way about yourself when you 20 ...
THERAPIST: ...what then, what would be the possibilities then.
THERAPIST: Also to the degree that the feeling that you still have to prove it...
THERAPIST: ...there means there's still some (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:15:52]
THERAPIST: ...there's still work to be done and to understand...
THERAPIST: Because, in other words, there must still be some feeling which, of course, how could there not be, in a way when we're just scratching the surface...
THERAPIST: ...that you're not quite sure: are you or are you not worth this person somehow.
THERAPIST: You know I wonder, Brian (sp?) about whether there's something, there's something that seems like is happening here and also happening with Kelly. The way you're talking about her and I was just thinking about how you were just talking about this place, like ‘ay, you know,' like it's becoming, rather than being really important, that something's happening where I almost get the feeling that it's just one of those things or what's the big deal if I did something else? What's the big deal if I slept in. You know? That with her there is also, there is some pulling back going on inside you and is not totally clear why, but there may be something about, like if the next step was being more intimate and more vulnerable here or there in different ways...
THERAPIST: Terrifying.
THERAPIST: You are?
THERAPIST: Humph! Wow.
THERAPIST: I've never heard of one before.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) I thought you were going to say, "root beer."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's almost not you.
THERAPIST: Or it was you when you were 17.
THERAPIST: There's a lot of change.
THERAPIST: I mean maybe one of the things you're saying to me is that maybe it's not the time for the couch. Maybe it feels like there is already so much happening, to imagine something else that would, who knows how that would shift things, in what way, and you're already feeling flooded. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Some awesome what?
THERAPIST: If that's the only fantasy you'd have of it, I don't know that you would not do it.
THERAPIST: Oh, but maybe even that, you're saying even if you did speed up and it got better and better and better, that's very disconcerting already. (Chuckle)
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. Like maybe it's time to keep just taking a deep breath and integrating all of this.
THERAPIST: Rather than turning up the dial.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) Yeah, I do.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I just wonder if there is, you know, there's a layer of what's being disconcerted about this, is your being unfrozen from back when you were 20. You know it's like and also where does mourning him go in the thick of it?
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Exactly.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Actually already happened.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And rather than only being a fear that you've developed, it is, what we're talking about, a way of keeping him alive still.
THERAPIST: You should have come yesterday.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yourself. And it may not ever feel like the thing that works for you either so that,
THERAPIST: But I hear you saying there's so much happening already.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: You mean like watching the video?
THERAPIST: Like, ‘who is that person?' (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Now all of a sudden you're not on it anymore.
THERAPIST: Just getting your bearings about who are you alive again.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
THERAPIST: I mean that's often what it sounds like you've described, like Oregon.
THERAPIST: It's like when your hands get numb from being really cold and then they start (cross talk)
THERAPIST: The blood starts to come back ...
THERAPIST: ...and it hurts.
THERAPIST: It's good, but it can be a little bit much.
THERAPIST: Coming alive.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I was actually going to ask you about that. You left something Monday?
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Unless someone took it.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay. Thanks Either one's fine. It's last week and then...
THERAPIST: You're welcome.
THERAPIST: Something in particular you were aware of?
THERAPIST: It is?
THERAPIST: Is it?
THERAPIST: That's disappointing.
THERAPIST: Internally.
THERAPIST: I know there's a wait to feel great, but on the other hand you also have been taking on more and more and more because of things feeling possible inside. So there is more on your plate, in a way.
THERAPIST: There are edges of the old voice but it actually sounds like even more so. There is, that you, because things have felt better you've been busier. You've been doing more things which means there are more things to be on top of, there are more things that are going to go minerly (ph) wrong because that's what happens to everybody. Right? It doesn't all go right. Some things go wrong every time you take on any one thing. So, there are things you have to worry about, everything's going well, there are things you have to worry about, but more of it in a way. So, it's the, your mind's not used to the ordinariness of daily stresses. [00:07:26]
THERAPIST: Of course it does. And even ...
THERAPIST: ...if you are pursuing any adventure, things come up that are frustrating, disappointing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's the part that doesn't feel old voicey.
THERAPIST: It really feels sounds more like dealing with the new.
THERAPIST: And even being able to be irritated at them for canceling rather than...
THERAPIST: ...feeling down on yourself.
THERAPIST: And go all down on them for doing that.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah. (cross talk) [00:15:16]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) your father is what I'm thinking of.
THERAPIST: And maybe that's the question is how much of what's going on around that is something like it's going to well, so you're going to pull back, or how much of it is just feeling like more genuine confident feeling out (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:17:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Of course.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Even staying open till 4:30 on Tuesday night, that's been on my mind. It's not particularly analytic interpretation, but ...
THERAPIST: It's important.
THERAPIST: But it throws most people off unless you're 18 or 19, you know?
THERAPIST: That's another extreme, no? (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's what I mean.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You can get dependent on it.
THERAPIST: Psychologically, I mean, physically. Not psychologically.
THERAPIST: How much coffee are you drinking?
THERAPIST: So that hasn't done as much as it has been.
THERAPIST: No, that's not bad at all. Any caffeine past about 4 o'clock though for some people will really keep them awake, even a quarter of a cup.
THERAPIST: Not all people. Some people can go right to bed. Some people are very sensitive to it.
THERAPIST: So it may be nothing but it may also be when you're in a kind of anxious mood that it exacerbates it a little bit.
THERAPIST: Oh, for sure.
THERAPIST: There have been times when you've slept, gone to bed earlier, those were a few sort of phases, no?
THERAPIST: Because you've come in here saying I'm going to bed earlier. Is it more like a week, you'll get a week doing that and then it falls off?
THERAPIST: Could do what you wanted?
THERAPIST: That the space, it's a very, it's a transitional space in all kids and even adults that you just get used to it over time that this state between awake and asleep when you're by yourself with your mind and your thoughts is its own space inside and can be very frightening for some kids, for many kids actually. And I just wonder about, when you're by yourself with whatever's in your mind, is it just too, it's not settleable (sp?) on your own a lot of the time. You could even say you have to have the company of the TV or ...
THERAPIST: ...like almost if you stay up until you don't even, yet all you do is pass from awake to asleep because you're so tired.
THERAPIST: You have company.
THERAPIST: I mean what awaits you in that period where you're alone and your mind is just fraught, too, for example,
THERAPIST: It's terrifying.
THERAPIST: In your falling asleep you mean, in particular?
THERAPIST: It's important.
THERAPIST: That's (inaudible) cross talk)
THERAPIST: Yes, that there's a kind of ideology underneath, a fantasy of, I don't know, if the kind of love you received was an envy, destructive love, that's scary, that's frightening if you're picking that up unconsciously as a kid from your own mother. That's not a kind of just holding, loving...
THERAPIST: Yes
THERAPIST: Yes. I mean that's I think what ultimately helps kids is having that calming restorative presence inside. You know, you have mommy inside and if the mommy inside is intent to destroy you underneath the love, that sort of love that starts
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: It doesn't take a psychoanalyst ...
THERAPIST: You know?
THERAPIST: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes.
THERAPIST: Somebody else is tired.
THERAPIST: Because you didn't feel it from her.
THERAPIST: You could tell it was a criticism.
THERAPIST: Of the couch.
THERAPIST: I was thinking that a mother...
THERAPIST: ...what was coming up here that would be (inaudible) [00:41:24]
THERAPIST: I'm not saying you did think about it at all. I'm just-the reason it comes to my mind is that it does feel, something feels different this week than where you were even last Thursday, Friday and kind of moving into the couch and anticipating the couch and there could also be a layer of, you know, just as I said to you it's a good thing if your anxiety starts to get focused here. All of the feelings that have happened out there will eventually start to happen in here, too, in this process so that I'm just listening for where some of those feelings about your mother could be stirring here also and kick up something that then we'll get to know because it's actually alive in here. You know? So it's just something to think about.
THERAPIST: Could there be criticism in that also, somehow, like is that the right way or not? Who knows.
THERAPIST: And then get down on yourself about it.
THERAPIST: Rather than that being actually, I don't think that will work for me, for who I am (inaudible) [00:43:20]
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: ...the things you do to take care of you, if you think about as a thing to do to take care of you...
THERAPIST: It could become (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Exactly, exactly.
THERAPIST: Right. Eat a banana or ...
THERAPIST: This is what you do regardless of whether you're actually (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:45:16]
THERAPIST: Trap.
THERAPIST: I believe that the third week in March I'm going to be away on vacation so the week of the 18th...
THERAPIST: ...I'm out the whole week.
THERAPIST: But we have three weeks before then.
THERAPIST: Wednesday at 1.
THERAPIST: ...what I'm doing now is just reflecting all the payments you've made and taking them off and putting under the balances, so it'll keep the running total going.
THERAPIST: I also put vacation days.
THERAPIST: Remember we talked about (cross talk)
THERAPIST: ...taking three weeks vacation just so you'd know where to tally is. There's two of those so far (cross talk)
THERAPIST: I'm good. How are you?
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: That's huge.
THERAPIST: You paid that without having to ask someone for a loan.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Even with your loans getting, and then the idea's now that you're actually making headway.
THERAPIST: And not going further into debt...
THERAPIST: ...trying to...
THERAPIST: ...break even breaking even can feel crappy, but
THERAPIST: ...you're also not going in debt.
THERAPIST: Temper things.
THERAPIST: That's huge, too.
THERAPIST: You respect the way she's done, but you (inaudible) holds you. [00:07:36]
THERAPIST: That she holds so many feelings of layers of meaning about non-Assyrian, divorced ...
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:09:32]
THERAPIST: Uh uh.
THERAPIST: Um hmm?
THERAPIST: Thoughtful and she followed through and (inaudible) [00:12:13]
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
THERAPIST: Something that like feels safer.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was going to say, ooh oh. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: I said I almost want to say, oh ooh, things are going too well again.
THERAPIST: No, I don't mean, I just mean going well in reality. I don't mean in a fantasy, it's really ...
THERAPIST: Like even that is (inaudible) [00:14:49]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:14:57]
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Are you worried about something, like?
THERAPIST: So, you're worried he's mad at you?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's what I mean. It sounds like you're, there's something gone-it's not, it's probably not nothing, but you're picking up on something or else (cross talk) (inaudible) [00:18:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And also you said there were other e-mails then you say?
THERAPIST: Even if it is whatever is going on inside him, (inaudible) [00:18:58]
THERAPIST: Do you think he has feelings about your not finishing the program yet, or wanting to...?
THERAPIST: I'm not saying that justifies his actions. Is that what you're imagining?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like it.
THERAPIST: He's on all of this.
THERAPIST: It's not about your work.
THERAPIST: It sounds like (inaudible) [00:22:24]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes. And there's usually a reason why or some reasons why (inaudible) [00:25:43]
THERAPIST: Like the couch? Remember?
THERAPIST: Remember we talked about doing that?
THERAPIST: Or what we were talking about I guess Friday about so many layers of meaning about am I pushing the couch, am I being like your mother in some way, implying you're not doing it right, you're not being a good patient. That could set off a whole kind of movement into a place of self criticism in relation to her, in relation to me, to her and me. That once we talked about it kind of shifted things. You remember last week we talked about, maybe even no, about not coming in on Wednesday and stayed up late Tuesday night.
THERAPIST: And that takes on a life of its own and you're tired, you're worn down.
THERAPIST: It's not one.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...if you're in one place and another becomes a way to withdraw.
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) think it's open, could bring this to (inaudible) and figure it out [00:32:23]
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean self-help is hokey, I just, the capacity for poetry...
THERAPIST: ...to capture experiences...
THERAPIST: ...very hard to put into words.
THERAPIST: Trauma is one of those experiences.
THERAPIST: There's so much unnamable.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes.
THERAPIST: I mean from sitting in this chair.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: ...together and having a conversation or not.
THERAPIST: ... you've been finding you are (inaudible) [00:40:01]
THERAPIST: ...all in (inaudible) mind. [00:40:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: You to, see you then.
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: It's tiring, too.
THERAPIST: Extenuating things like you mean putting a record out?
THERAPIST: Is that what you were referring to?
THERAPIST: Is your mom able to give you money?
THERAPIST: By yourself, yeah.
THERAPIST: It's interesting because with a brother you could imagine that you wouldn't feel your pride is...
THERAPIST: Better to call George.
THERAPIST: ...where you can't pay it...
THERAPIST: ...this week that means ...
THERAPIST: But that's got to wear on you with (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When I was asking, I actually wasn't even thinking about the feeling of resentment of paying for it, but of just with the run kind of balancing of it all ...
THERAPIST: ...with a credit card.
THERAPIST: Because I kind of tiptoe around that to try and not to make it feel worse.
THERAPIST: It's like one of those things I wonder, like your loans, there are certain things that, where like you know my fantasy that your mom would understand that actually one of the things you're doing right now is taking care of things and ...
THERAPIST: It'll be something.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean (inaudible) I imagine you'd feel better, like with your loan. [00:10:52]
THERAPIST: Instead of (inaudible) tackling one piece at a time...
THERAPIST: ...and it's a clean slate.
THERAPIST: Well, in here it's only a one time payment for that. Do you know what I mean? It's not really ...
THERAPIST: ..,bad.
THERAPIST: I did notice.
THERAPIST: And it would be lower except for the times that you haven't shown up.
THERAPIST: (Laugh) So that...
THERAPIST: ...digs into what you're it's a few steps forward and a few steps back.
THERAPIST: It's been, have been noticing that it's been decreasing slowly.
THERAPIST: I just don't want, I don't want to not talk about it because then it becomes kind of like an elephant in the room, too, or something that's too horrible to talk about.
THERAPIST: I have some flexibility around (cross talk) [00:13:12]
THERAPIST: Clearly (inaudible) show you but it's important also that it be part of the conversations (inaudible) [00:13:14]
THERAPIST: And they also take investment.
THERAPIST: Money (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you wish she would give you the house at this point when you say that (inaudible) ? [00:15:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She's making ends meet.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And if you had the house, like if she signed it over to you and it was in your control, what would ...
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: That's very different from ‘how can I help you.'
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You haven't been so tired about, like when we talk about things like tutoring and you'll say, ‘definitely not, nothing will ever be worth my doing that again.'
THERAPIST: So, that's, you're in conflict about it. You know, there's a side of you that feels like ...
THERAPIST: ...you don't want to be in this place but another side that doesn't not want that so much.
THERAPIST: But if you're tutoring three people a week, that's already ...
THERAPIST: ...not pocket change. That's only three hours a week. That's a lot and then you're paying, more than paying off the loans, you'd pay off this.
THERAPIST: And I'm not saying that it's not like a ...
THERAPIST: ...should or shouldn't but it's just noticing that you're tired of the feeling of being broke, but not so tired that you're willing to do anything not to be broke. Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: When you do picture what you want your life to look like, what to you picture when you say that?
THERAPIST: So, even if you had a salary of 70,000 instead right now instead of 50,000 could that (cross talk) [00:26:56]
THERAPIST: (Laughs) (inaudible) retire. (Laughs) Go ahead.
THERAPIST: But that's what I'm saying, so that's good to know concretely that somewhere in that range feels more ...
THERAPIST: ...feels comfortable.
THERAPIST: I mean, you're so you're not that far off from where you'd feel like you'd be more comfortable, only 20 grand a year.
THERAPIST: You could actually I know you don't want to tutor, but the way you started conceptualizing ...
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: By doing a few hour, I mean something that pays an hourly rate I guess, that's a decent hourly rate. That's what's good about tutoring is you get a pretty high rate relative to working at Starbucks or something.
THERAPIST: But you may be saying no you want to sort of take everything of what you're doing at both jobs, you know, the money that tutoring would bring and what you're currently doing and put that into (cross talk)
THERAPIST: Meaning? What do ...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe one of the things you're saying is that doing something like tutoring doesn't feel like it's an act that recognizes who you are.
THERAPIST: You have such a history of not being recognized for who you are. Over and over and over and over.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, you've done it for just so long. I mean that's probably what you're saying. You're tired of it. And you've gone in and out of pretending you're something that would impress your mother.
THERAPIST: Instead of yourself which apparently she wasn't impressed about. Including going to Brown.
THERAPIST: ...which probably wasn't, if you'd known yourself, would not...
THERAPIST: ...chosen to do.
THERAPIST: It sounded like you could find words last night from the words.
THERAPIST: That's something.
THERAPIST: You have a lot of feeling.
THERAPIST: Come in and talk to me about them.
THERAPIST: It's diff when you're alone you say things that either you feel more comfortable or it's just a, you know, obviously if you're driving around aimlessly it's a little different, you know we have time parameters and you know what I mean? Things kind of pop out.
THERAPIST: And that's all it would be.
THERAPIST: Sometimes you didn't even know what the words were.
THERAPIST: You just had an image of just ...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: A few. Why?
THERAPIST: I'm sure there's going to be some way. If you're saying this is going to be for a book and it's historical, you know, research for the background of a book, there's going to be somebody you could get on the phone who would.
THERAPIST: I'd just keep trying different people on the staff.
THERAPIST: I mean I think they're very protective of privacy of patients and ...
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. Just keep trying. Broken wheel (ph) [00:43:41]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean that's what a reporter (cross talk) ...
THERAPIST: ...push, push, push until somebody say's, yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:43:50]
THERAPIST: Yeah, 3:10.
THERAPIST: It looks awesome.
THERAPIST: Ah ha. Wow.
THERAPIST: Oh, my goodness.
THERAPIST: I will listen to it.
THERAPIST: How do you feel?
THERAPIST: Really.
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: I thought he said they don't do anthologies.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: They'll do that. Got it.
THERAPIST: It's this Saturday.
THERAPIST: Oh, wow.
THERAPIST: So many accomplishments and movement.
THERAPIST: And expressions.
THERAPIST: Laughs
THERAPIST: (Cross talk) (inaudible) [00:02:43]
THERAPIST: You are in a way already doing two businesses on the side.
THERAPIST: Plus your job.
THERAPIST: So, the idea of bringing in, even though it was a good idea, it's just -
THERAPIST: it's just lots to be thinking about.
THERAPIST: It's rushing.
THERAPIST: So having to keep your head above water is -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Of course. It's like hard work.
THERAPIST: It's like you stepped into another world where the sky is red.
THERAPIST: The grass was purple and you, it's just, and everything's different. It's just a lot of newness to take in emotionally.
THERAPIST: What does it feel like when you do that?
THERAPIST: It's still -
THERAPIST: There are a lot of pressures somehow still.
THERAPIST: What were you going to say?
THERAPIST: Fear of?
THERAPIST: Where's your anxious -
THERAPIST: This is new.
THERAPIST: If other people feel that way, if all they were doing was tackling one business, instead of seven or eight. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: I honestly don't know how you're fathoming other businesses while you're considering writing and your music. I'm not saying you shouldn't do it.
THERAPIST: It's a lot.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Aware.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Almost where you would be but it's so fast for you -
THERAPIST: It's like you're flipping through space and the stars are flying by you, very disorienting.
THERAPIST: It's on fast forward now.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) that's good but it's really bad.
THERAPIST: Now it's not inside.
THERAPIST: Really cool.
THERAPIST: Therapy is also hard work.
THERAPIST: It's not (cross talk)
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: It's not easy.
THERAPIST: Grief.
THERAPIST: That's changing.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry you had to go to a funeral.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:31:45]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Thanks for the CD.
THERAPIST: That's okay.
THERAPIST: I just was checking in to –
THERAPIST: This week was only two though, so just thinking about your accounting.
THERAPIST: And next week will be none.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's normal business hours.
THERAPIST: Although, slide it under the door because I'm not going to be here.
THERAPIST: Nothing. How have you been?
THERAPIST: Good. CLIENT: Yeah, really excited because of the show tomorrow. It's so awesome like yesterday I was a little, I had to put the CD in my computer just to see how it comes up so at first I was kind of bummed because the artwork wasn't showing up.
THERAPIST: What do you mean – how it comes up?
THERAPIST: Oh no. I didn't know that. You mean when you put it in your computer?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it was great. I listened to it yesterday. Wonderful.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I was shocked by just the production. How fast –
THERAPIST: And who's doing that? Is it (unclear) (cross talk)? [00:02:57]
THERAPIST: Spontaneous, raw. Yeah. Wow. That's big, too. That's like perfecting a final product.
THERAPIST: That's what I thought. I didn't know whether what you were talking about was just the audio. CLIENT: No, I just set it up to video me and that's why the audio – it's not a garage band recording or whatever. I just played into the computer and it came out awesome like it's – and that was the thing. I wanted to do something where I'm not thinking about polishing it. And the crazy thing is that I'm able to watch it. I've watched it several times and I like it. Like I like the way I look in it. Like nothing about it bothers me. It's pretty cool.
THERAPIST: That's something.
THERAPIST: It is like coming out of the closet.
THERAPIST: Because you don't have time for it.
THERAPIST: Like something she was saying towards you or imagining you saying towards your friends.
THERAPIST: She lives in Taiwan?
THERAPIST: So this was all on Internet.
THERAPIST: But in a way it is.
THERAPIST: Really?
THERAPIST: My goodness. It's an avalanche.
THERAPIST: So it was nice to hear from her. CLIENT: Oh yeah, it was great. I mean, what are you going to do? She lives in Montana.
THERAPIST: She does?
THERAPIST: I knew that. I didn't know she moved back there.
THERAPIST: Yeah, why would it be weird?
THERAPIST: Or you seem to be just so unstuck.
THERAPIST: Driven.
THERAPIST: Exactly. That's what I mean. Like text like, Tricia come to the show. Yeah, like, oh, there's my friend Josh. Like, Josh come to the show. It's like, oh wow, it's you know, I don't do shit like that.
THERAPIST: It's really strange. CLIENT: Yeah, it is. I was even thinking just now while I was washing my hands, I was like, you know she didn't contact my PR people so I kind of even don't know what they're doing. I feel like I could be doing what they're doing. I don't see any major thing that they're doing. I like the guy but I mean I don't have the money if this is all it is then you know. I could stuff envelopes and send CDs.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And then actually to not be so afraid of that, freeze up doing things when you're finding yourself actually being a really active person. There's a lot of energy wanting to move forward.
THERAPIST: I didn't know that.
THERAPIST: You enrolled?
THERAPIST: You were going to school there, but for literature?
THERAPIST: I didn't know this.
THERAPIST: Were you planning on doing that before you went out there?
THERAPIST: It's really interesting that right now this week or these weeks when you're in this place of just being yourself and realizing who you are and you keep saying how great it is, that there's something about the story that all of a sudden you're reconstructing and finding these pieces that I'm struck because you never told me these pieces where you were being you. It may not have – you may not have been able to come out all the time, you may not even have been aware of what you were doing but it was you doing things.
THERAPIST: A long time.
THERAPIST: You're seeing it in a much more loving way towards your own self.
THERAPIST: What time of the year was it that you would have done that?
THERAPIST: You drove out.
THERAPIST: By yourself.
THERAPIST: And you enrolled in school in the literature program, transferred that fall?
THERAPIST: Yeah. In other words in the fall?
THERAPIST: I guess I'm just asking if it felt like you were there but having no idea what you were doing for a year, sort of working odd jobs and then going to school?
THERAPIST: It's hard to remember. CLIENT: I never knew what I was doing, even going to school. I mean the whole thing was a lack of knowing what I was doing. The other thing I did was I took film class and like I enjoyed it. I acted in it. At one point me and my group did a short film around campus and I was one of the actors in it. It was weird and like I did that.
THERAPIST: You were doing things.
THERAPIST: And PTSD you describe it as shifting substates and I think it's getting in the habit when you don't (unclear) around PTSD when you have a traumatic experience. But you're describing certain, getting into a substate but maybe it would feel like a healthier version of yourself when motivated and being yourself but it wouldn't last or something switches maybe back into a very depressed, sounding overwhelmed, don't know which way is up and without guidance the little kid inside feels lost and it would go back and forth a lot like that so when these bubbles or something bursts of things were you. But it wasn't consistent. And maybe that's what you're saying is the fear of – is this a burst of something or is this going to last?
THERAPIST: Who?
THERAPIST: Like she'd get frenzied with energy.
THERAPIST: But it occurs. What do you think –?
THERAPIST: I think it's life changing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But that would feel like it being sort of unintegrated bursts of motivation. This in a way is unintegrated, because this is so new but it's coming from a firmer foundation, you know. It really just is persisting.
THERAPIST: And since you've never known it that's sort of the closest thing you know about it.
THERAPIST: Why do you say it's not appropriate?
THERAPIST: It's funny but I actually read the whole – I read everything. I read everybody's names, trying to figure out who everybody was and wondered if that came up in your mind or not. I hear you.
THERAPIST: I read through the names and it occurred to me, I wonder –
THERAPIST: No, it didn't feel hurtful.
THERAPIST: I was imagining –
THERAPIST: Who are these other people and I was also imagining what – was I in your mind when you were thinking about that list?
THERAPIST: Whether to put it or not.
THERAPIST: Yes. Of course. This is your private space. I understand that. You're welcome.
THERAPIST: No it's not. I hear you.
THERAPIST: I think that is what also I've seen as I was wondering about your process about not even books or cool guy on the list. CLIENT: It was actually longer but I was that's fucking ridiculous like there were some people that really either chipped in big or (unclear) [00:37:03] and then there were people who were just moral – who were just really there.
THERAPIST: Scanning things.
THERAPIST: Who is he? Who is that person?
THERAPIST: Maybe good things can feel your artistry, too.
THERAPIST: You were saying people are noticing it.
THERAPIST: A week from Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Where did you get it?
THERAPIST: That's nice.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah?
THERAPIST: That's good news?
THERAPIST: Since 2006?
THERAPIST: Why didn't you raise it?
THERAPIST: That's great.
THERAPIST: And also it seems reasonable to raise the rent each year. CLIENT: Of course. And she was like no, they might move. And I was like, well fucking let them move. Are you kidding me? Like, we let them park like two cars. We don't charge enough for that. You know, ride on the bus, right? It's a beautiful family owned home, nice and quiet. Mellow. You know. So I'm so excited. I can like totally get the people I want, you know. Plus, it's kind of nice to have my mom in there because you're allowed to be way – there are things you can do when there's an elderly owner in the house that you can't do – you know, no kids. There's certain things you can kind of just be up front about. No fucking dogs from now on. So, yeah, I'm just psyched. And it kind of happened with perfect timing because I've been really stressed about money this past week so I'm kind of glad. It's a little bump. I'm going to start tutoring again, I think. Just like twice a week. I was thinking about it. You know, I don't have to go from one extreme to the other. For right now just twice a week even if I just didn't. Usually I charge 60 but if I charged – still that's 800 bucks a month. You know, eight sessions – 400 bucks a month. Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's a lot of work.
THERAPIST: She's writing one too.
THERAPIST: A mutual mentorship.
THERAPIST: That's neat.
THERAPIST: Well, as you are taking your (unclear) forms more seriously as you craft and your profession the idea of tutoring in a way fits a little bit better – like it is something small for a big chunk of change you can do on the side to support yourself. [00:08:55]
THERAPIST: Whereas running a business to get one of those other running to make enough money would take more time, maybe not eventually four years down the line you could pass it off to a manager of the business but it would be a lot (cross talk) (unclear). [00:09:15]
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: That's great.
THERAPIST: It's a really good gig. CLIENT: Yeah, it's a lifesaver. It's a lifesaver. Like I – it really is. So if I could just – yeah, like you said, I think I just realized – you know man? I just put in – really, what would that be? Three hours a week to make like 150, 160 bucks a week? Are you kidding me? I just got to suck it up, you know? I was like, I'll just do it the way I want to do it. I don't want to do it every single day.
THERAPIST: It's a (unclear) you can design. [00:10:30]
THERAPIST: Do it one day a week if you want to. (Unclear) in a row and it's done.
THERAPIST: Charge what you want to charge.
THERAPIST: Did they tell you what you can charge?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: So charge $70 or $80.
THERAPIST: Tight.
THERAPIST: The other friend.
THERAPIST: More so than Kelly?
THERAPIST: And maybe that – you're saying that will actually feels better to have it –
THERAPIST: She was expressive then. CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, totally. She was like, you're amazing, you know. But she is a little bit more aloof. You know, she's an artist so we are totally equals so I think because of that I'm maybe not used to, she's not like gaga over every little thing I do. She's like, oh great. Oh that's fantastic, that's great. You know, it's just very – you know what I mean? Whereas in the past it's been like girls, they're like groupies. They have these moments where – and you know it does feel kind of good for someone to be like more effusive, whatever. So, wow. And then that makes me, if I go down that road, then I go back to the way I used to be – well, she's a little heavier than I like – you know what I mean? Like I saw some good looking women – like I went out to Portsmouth with her and her girlfriend and – do you get out to Portsmouth often?
THERAPIST: I used to.
THERAPIST: Well you are explaining it though. You're aware you've moved back into that finding whether you're still criticized when you're feeling a little uncertain about the relationship. Especially uncertain about aware of looking at her heart, in her being (unclear). [00:18:11]
THERAPIST: Well one of the questions I hear you going back and forth is, if you didn't need to hear that – if you just knew in yourself, knew that you're not a failure, knew what you are worth, knew that you (unclear) [00:19:12] would it feel the same way that you (cross talk) (unclear).
THERAPIST: (Unclear). [00:19:54]
THERAPIST: A man can come from a somewhat different place, if you're feeling like I do know what I'm worth and what works for me in a relationship is someone who (unclear) (cross talk).
THERAPIST: And someone else might not need that but that doesn't mean that that's wrong if it works for you too.
THERAPIST: What?
THERAPIST: And all of a sudden, you just felt it just now when you said it?
THERAPIST: Well that will do it.
THERAPIST: And it hasn't become physical? CLIENT: No, no, not yet. I mean we do – it's actually very sweet like you know, she'll kind of touch me, like put her hand on my – or I'll kind of just lightly touch her or we'll hug, you know, but no, there's no. No. Like it's true, we had a really – she told me about her family. She kind of like got teary eyed. Like we really kind of related on certain – she's an only child. When she was growing up she didn't – although her situation is much worse – I mean sexual abuse, way, way, way worse, but the bottom line was she never got the kind of love that – like with her mom and all that. I told her some things about Samantha that I've never told – that night I went – and she wouldn't let me in, you know. So I don't know, I'm confused I guess.
THERAPIST: And there's more time to figure out what each (unclear) means to you.
THERAPIST: Like who they are and –
THERAPIST: And that's what you'd do to her.
THERAPIST: So you're on the same page.
THERAPIST: You haven't been here a week. I've been gone a week.
THERAPIST: What was it like not to be here?
THERAPIST: Like it felt nice that – it's not like you fell apart.
THERAPIST: (Unclear) a metaphor – two parts and (unclear) and I are getting attached again. [00:27:35]
THERAPIST: There's something you need that you're not getting with (unclear) response. [00:29:46]
THERAPIST: To make it just feel like it's totally safe and okay that you get from Bethany.
THERAPIST: She sounds very traumatized.
THERAPIST: (Unclear). [00:32:32]
THERAPIST: It does. I think you're still figuring out also what it is that would really work for you in a long-term relationship.
THERAPIST: That stuff is kind of up in the air.
THERAPIST: And even knowing that no one person is going to have all the right pieces. So what are the things that are going to feel fundamental to what if the relationship were sustained for a like a long – and being committed to it. And what will feel like there are some things that you are willing to let go? And it just seems like you get very self-critical about not knowing that shit right now and it just seems open right now. It's part of what it sounds like you're doing with Bethany. I mean the positive side of it is just kind of thinking through who different people really are. What it's like to bring your whole – the person who you are now, which is new to you even.
THERAPIST: Even just the possibility that she's in a slightly different phase in her life having been married and divorced and having a child is not personal – I mean nothing personal about that, that you are just trying to figure out, okay, where you are and where she fits – how does that fit together? How does that not fit together? CLIENT: And for example – it's a little thing but it's a big thing. I mean does this jerk even want to have another kid? She's 38.
THERAPIST: It's not a little thing.
THERAPIST: She's holding your (unclear). [00:41:45]
THERAPIST: It's interesting though because you're saying you also picture yourself having a child.
THERAPIST: What's so important about what you're saying was I have the strength to change and what's really exciting is that you can start to look at stories of these people, or potential relationships from the vantage point of I want this. It could look like something you want and feel like you can't have it but what if you could? You might not actually want any one of these people, or many of them or most of them.
THERAPIST: Yes. To settle down, get married and have a child with this person? I don't think your answer would be yes to those people. So who you are feeling yourself to be now that this link is getting made and you're finally that person again from your adolescence and that's emerging. It's feeling better about yourself. What do you want in your life? What is actually in your hands and your decision and your choice and feeling like you're only waiting for the person on the pedestal to choose you. That's actually not it.
THERAPIST: That's like (unclear). [00:45:04]
THERAPIST: That would get on your nerves after a while.
THERAPIST: Would you?
THERAPIST: So maybe it would feel like (unclear) for you? [00:48:23]
THERAPIST: Is that what you really want?
THERAPIST: Where do you see yourself 10 years from now?
THERAPIST: Just the way you got anxious.
THERAPIST: (Unclear) you want to see is anxiety, doesn't – it must have gotten a really bad rap and you're feeling like – [00:52:36] CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You're like it's such a gnawing feeling. (Cross talk) (Unclear).
THERAPIST: Ah.
THERAPIST: Ah. No and I just meant more as like curiously, what was on your mind. What just crossed your mind that triggered some feeling a little bit more and it was just interesting that you said, Sophie's scratches, and you were talking about you could be alone or you could also bring someone into your life like a cat and there's a lot of anguish – she scratches you too.
THERAPIST: Right. Whereas I think anxiety is a feeling you actually want to have some of. If you don't have anxiety –
THERAPIST: Or it just signals the – prepares the system for something.
THERAPIST: If you don't have any of that you –
THERAPIST: One. Yeah.
THERAPIST: It was great, thank you.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: I have listened to a few of them.
THERAPIST: Very good, actually.
THERAPIST: Why?
THERAPIST: It's been very easy. It's more expensive than they usually are but it's worth it.
THERAPIST: Yeah – 150.
THERAPIST: You're using it for what?
THERAPIST: A number of hours. Twelve hours or something.
THERAPIST: Yes. Sure. CLIENT: So yeah, we could just leave it and forget about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It does.
THERAPIST: I'm glad you've made sense of what you're saying because there has been, it's like a fever pitch intensity for a while that has felt good but part of what you're trying out that two end sides connect and is currently, but it's been intense and maybe there are times where it feels like what would happen if you could take a deep breath and kind of go to sleep instead of finish that at night. What would happen if the intensity calmed down a little bit?
THERAPIST: Well if what you're looking for is a kind of deep recognition that it's something you can hold rather than something the masses could provide that they can't provide that.
THERAPIST: Like you – there's not this basic take in what's really there (unclear) and that is there. [00:08:44] It's [ameliorable] (ph) what more –
THERAPIST: Not to mention that even at 15 while you may have been incredibly prolific and then weren't for a period, even then you still didn't have this foundation of recognition from your own – from your mother, where you just had that inside you and then could write. Because you wanted to write or create or play music because you wanted to, but even still there may have been a driven-ness to get seen or known, going on even then about what was missing.
THERAPIST: Did your dad – you're always talking about your mother in this realm, did he understand what an artist you were?
THERAPIST: He never – you know. He didn't tell you to be a dentist.
THERAPIST: Not even what he was?
THERAPIST: Don't what?
THERAPIST: Like you grab your chest.
THERAPIST: Exactly. How much you've held for the family, hopes and dreams and fantasies. I mean you've been this repository for so much in your history and your family that there's a lot riding and that could get straight even when you're doing well that I think we have yet to kind of unpeel all of the layers of what that means even.
THERAPIST: I totally hear you.
THERAPIST: So you're saying it's related to what I have been saying that there is something, if you're just leading your own life at last and sort of just doing it, it is liking cutting a cord to the ties that kept you – they probably kept you feeling safe in a way that you at least had that foundation and the foundation came with so many strings attached. To cut them is terribly like letting loose and then where you land.
THERAPIST: They wanted to be a doctor because that's what their parents wanted them to be.
THERAPIST: I think you're actually talking about the kind –
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: You spent four years in Oregon.
THERAPIST: And sometimes never do.
THERAPIST: What haunts you in that when things calm down, what does alone feel like?
THERAPIST: Probably excited you came?
THERAPIST: This is what you're describing about how it can be both liberating and terrifying to move from a place of feeling kind of paranoid and retreat into the world is looking at me and it's all – like it reflects on me – into a place of knowing, no they're not. Really, they're not.
THERAPIST: All of a sudden you get to not care. And they're not looking which is as kind of like, I'm alone, and that person's over there doing the same thing alone and that person's over there doing the same thing. That's the terrifying of the – in the paranoid place you can still feel like there's a world around you. This place gets depressing in an odd way, too.
THERAPIST: Real contact is possible and yet it's also real contact with another who has their own separate subjectivity and their own fantasies and their own mind.
THERAPIST: It sounds like there's a lot of feeling there. You've often said that once it came out of you you'd feel calmer.
THERAPIST: There's some languages to describe this progression from the paranoid schizoid to the depressive position in orientation to the world.
THERAPIST: That's a piece of what I think you're experiencing. I don't think that captures all of it. There's just a lot going on. Why do you ask that?
THERAPIST: Kleinian? Melanie Klein. Who really thinks about the process of analysis as waking up the patient's capacity to dream as a focus and the idea being that there can be at the beginning of this process, pockets of deadness inside where things are not knowable and dreamable and creatable yet. And I think you're in this place where there are links being made so that things are coming alive and get to be known even – I don't even mean consciously, but in dreaming as the place to begin to process and have emotional experience, begin to have images and begin to have words for all this stuff that's been stuck inside without words for so long and yet in that process it doesn't mean everything's hunky-dory because to begin to dream for example, there are vivid images. There's terrifying things in dreams. There are crazy and strange things in dreams. And I mean dreams as you know, mostly like fantasies or night dreams also, but as things come alive there's – it's scary. It can be scary. Like what is there of life inside? And I think that's – a lot of that is happening right now. CLIENT: I do think of it like waking up. It definitely is, like that's what I was saying, it's kind of like being renanimated after being frozen like, sort of.
THERAPIST: That's why I think about this theorist, because he describes it as literally you cannot wake up. You can never fall asleep and you can never wake up from that dead space and like that's so – you're literally at the level of not being able to sleep but also not feeling like you're totally awake either.
THERAPIST: Bion. He's British.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: This is a touchstone place.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Exactly.
THERAPIST: I might.
THERAPIST: I'll let you know if I do.
THERAPIST: We're doing, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday though?
THERAPIST: Our regular routine? And I should be here until summer vacation. At this point I don't have any –
THERAPIST: Plans.
THERAPIST: You're somewhere.
THERAPIST: You're just living it. CLIENT: It's huge, huge.
THERAPIST: And I'll see you Wednesday for sure, I'll be open Monday as well.
THERAPIST: It is, yes.
THERAPIST: You too.
THERAPIST: You’ve given me one check this month for $60 as far as I have record of.
THERAPIST: For March.
THERAPIST: If you have otherwise,
THERAPIST: double check –
THERAPIST: Yes. I was away for a week.
THERAPIST: Sure. It gets warm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It’s been a while. That’s good.
THERAPIST: Scary.
THERAPIST: Scary?
THERAPIST: First regular week.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: You had just found that out.
THERAPIST: Did she know – she didn’t know where you were.
THERAPIST: It’s also just, maybe feels kind of intrusive and enmeshed with you. You can’t have your own space.
THERAPIST: What’s the feeling? What’s your feeling about it?
THERAPIST: It was like they were in other people in the street or across the street and the neighbors –
THERAPIST: Yeah, the neighbors were on your side. And then you felt that way about noises. The feeling of your space being encroached upon. Because it has been.
THERAPIST: With her.
THERAPIST: It’s intrusive. I mean it’s more than just whiny. She’s trying to track you down.
THERAPIST: You also haven’t always done that either. That’s relatively –
THERAPIST: Recent, bitch slapping her.
THERAPIST: Right?
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: I think that that’s a sensitive point that what you’ve been doing relatively recently is so much healthier. It also highlights what you’ve kind of had to do, what you couldn’t do because how could you as a kid with her. Kids don’t –
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: I think that’s what’s so paradoxical about the way you are is that what you’re describing are such positive changes to be able to stand up to your mother when she’s like that and not kind of give in to it because you’re motivated by keeping her happy with you every which way. To just be yourself is so new and so good and so different and effective even. You’re saying having that voice is actually changing her a little bit. She’s hearing you some and yet as you do that I could also imagine another side is becoming that much more aware of how long you haven’t done that, too, and how sad. I mean it’s so much more you haven’t understood about how maybe even how compliant or how much you’d supplicate yourself to her in various ways and I get that maybe it would then eventually come to a head and something would explode but before that there would be a long period of time in between of –
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Of course.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well you’ve once – you said that when you’re only just feeling that sadness but not feeling something you’re moving toward, it’s unbearable.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: And people are even still living lies which are complying with their –
THERAPIST: But this is still your story, it is a story.
THERAPIST: It’s your story.
THERAPIST: And it’s something. It’s not something that’s only done to avoid it.
THERAPIST: What’s there.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Last week you were saying you were just feeling like there’s just – what is this? Like you’re pushing, pushing, pushing, working, staying up late and some of that’s great but is there any too muchness about it? And we were talking about all that you hadn’t gotten to yet about what it means to be freeing up.
THERAPIST: Oh, I’m not saying it was a negative.
THERAPIST: Just that it has meaning.
THERAPIST: That’s all.
THERAPIST: Sometimes it feels that way though.
THERAPIST: With your mom.
THERAPIST: Even in relationships you feel more present.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or with friends or –
THERAPIST: And with your work.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
THERAPIST: Is he a friend of yours?
THERAPIST: How nice.
THERAPIST: Or even of your passion.
THERAPIST: It seems like you’re just teaching yourself piano the other day and writing songs and doing it without anyone helping you do that or anyone bolstering you. There’s a little kid, and then middle child and how obvious it was, this was a total passion and still not – it wasn’t held in awe. Not just supported, but like –
THERAPIST: Amazed by your child. Nothing.
THERAPIST: It’s not amazement.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) Right.
THERAPIST: Oh, goodness.
THERAPIST: It’s insanity to want them to have attended to you and have known you and admired the things that were there to admire. You’re not asking to be, you know, have them blow sunshine up your ass for things that aren’t real.
THERAPIST: Right? It’s taken you this long to discover they’re real because no one ever even saw what was really there.
THERAPIST: But of course you can’t bring it up with them because they wouldn’t get it.
THERAPIST: They’d have no idea what you were talking about.
THERAPIST: Right. Imagine you’re a child and your parents say, but I support you. I love you. Don’t you know? It’s crazy making for the child. You’re having these feeling of nobody quite gets me or it and yet they’re telling you they do so there are no words for your experience. No one is seeing what’s –f
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well also that’s not just a justification, Brian, that’s another layer being yourself more in reality. They what they did to get you is its own kind of paranoia that isn’t true either.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Exactly.
THERAPIST: That was done to them.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Of not wanting anything else but just wanting to (unclear).
THERAPIST: Your mother was your mirror.
THERAPIST: If you had a child in other words and could set yourself –
THERAPIST: And be just feel to be proud of them.
THERAPIST: Even if they were exceeding, succeeding at something that you never got to succeed in.
THERAPIST: So see how easy that was for you to say, not a question in my mind would I be able to do that? And yet that wasn’t done for you.
THERAPIST: So if it’s – you know, I think that’s some of the pain if it’s that easy to give – why couldn’t they do that?
THERAPIST: Like of course you could feel jealous that their parents paid for their education and still want the best for them.
THERAPIST: Those can coincide.
THERAPIST: The answer isn’t that a parent doesn’t have those feelings towards a child, but they can help kind of (unclear) (cross talk) [00:47:08]
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm. While you were practicing, um-hmm?
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Say more about circling the wagons.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:03:54).
THERAPIST: Honing in on getting closer and closer to yourself or something.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: It's not getting under your skin.
THERAPIST: (Crosstalk) yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. [0:07:06]
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm. What's the difference in not taking these minor things to look as feeling exactly like your family?
THERAPIST: (Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm..
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that I think that's a piece of it, too, is just the loneliness.
THERAPIST: And love, because (ph) that may be too black and white, but that there's enough -
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, right.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Or at least, where even if it's not something you would exactly fond of, where there's not a possibility of communication going somewhere.
THERAPIST: Because I think that's also what you have been seeing in person and other times have tried.
THERAPIST: If only so far as you can get it.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes.
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm not saying anything is just you.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm. Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. [0:16:09]
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: In theory, that's just yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. If you feel (ph) how she almost doesn't absorb (ph).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: It's very sad.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Your grandfather never did.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [0:20:06]
THERAPIST: Huh (ph).
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: That the people at (inaudible at 0:21:32) mixed messages.
THERAPIST: Not all that much support.
THERAPIST: You need to get a license (inaudible at 0:21:42) and be in the country, riding around.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean nothing ever gets acknowledged.
THERAPIST: For what it really is.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [0:23:05]
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, huh.
THERAPIST: Your mom is the oldest?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Your aunt was a baby.
THERAPIST: Huh.
THERAPIST: Really.
THERAPIST: Both of them?
THERAPIST: Were they twins?
THERAPIST: Oh, I thought you said when they were six.
THERAPIST: They weren't malicious. Okay.
THERAPIST: Huh. One, then the other.
THERAPIST: Wow.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Twins (ph).
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: But you said also she was the favorite one. [0:25:03]
THERAPIST: Pretty dramatic with stuff (inaudible at 0:25:08).
THERAPIST: The way (crosstalk) is split, what happened in time.
THERAPIST: Sure (ph).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, also sharing (ph) a birth order and getting (inaudible at 0:25:39), there's also this there's also this there's a girl, and then a girl, and then the two boys.
THERAPIST: Who died.
THERAPIST: And then the sister. I mean the savior and sister.
THERAPIST: Who comes sort of as a replacement.
THERAPIST: And then the son.
THERAPIST: And then just seeing that genders -
THERAPIST: And it was so much unconscious subtexts about female and male and -
THERAPIST: And now, you know, when it's stirring in your mom's parents about these (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: Exactly. Yes.
THERAPIST: Hmm. And likewise, that sister, and you only takes the place of the golden cow.
THERAPIST: A place that just, you know -
THERAPIST: What was missing for a while. 0:26:32
THERAPIST: Hmm, yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: He's paying for... (Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Thinking about...
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Appreciates?
THERAPIST: Yeah. 0:28:14
THERAPIST: Hmm. What did he do?
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm, oh, he did. So it was his...
THERAPIST: Oh. Huh.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: I think is what you're also describing and saying "See you later, I'm going out."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: It's known as anxiety. It's so terrible, anxiety. 0:30:20
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. [0:31:11]
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: No.
THERAPIST: Your aunt.
THERAPIST: Who passed away. As the favored one.
THERAPIST: You know, there's something qualitatively different coming towards the (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: In other words, it has its own drawbacks, too, being favored, but that it's...
THERAPIST: Right. And so even her mothering, then, for her own daughters -
THERAPIST: could give off something a little bit -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Yeah, two kids in a million.
THERAPIST: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [0:34:02]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: It is sad.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:36:24) person.
THERAPIST: Of course.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [0:37:18]
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. [0:38:01]
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: She sounds terribly depressed and terribly anxious to and all the other symptoms.
THERAPIST: Huge (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 0:39:32) (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: You lived in (inaudible at 0:40:22).
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Character revealer.
THERAPIST: Character revealer.
THERAPIST: Well, wasn't it just shows another part of you that was not noticed, like you as someone with tremendous empathy for other people's experience.
THERAPIST: Who was there for your uncle.
THERAPIST: And somehow you feel safe enough.
THERAPIST: Or seen enough by that he can...
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: So tomorrow. Three ten?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:44:16).
THERAPIST: (Chuckling).
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes, I was thinking that. That's not like you completely.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, (inaudible at 0:00:38) too much.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Umm. Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. You cancelled earlier in the week, right?
THERAPIST: No?
THERAPIST: Oh, that was for today.
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:02:32).
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: It's a huge compliment. [0:03:03]
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm. Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah, try meeting girls (ph).
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Well, not "fucking Assyrians" in a global sense.
THERAPIST: But then show me this way, show me this way.
THERAPIST: Show me crazy.
THERAPIST: Show me yeah, whatever it is.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: You mean in [here you know what] (ph)? In Cambridge, I guess?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Oh, really.
THERAPIST: I didn't know that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Hmm. So that's I think that's why it (ph) was interchanged. It's just a larger population.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: They're like getting in the party (ph) pool.
THERAPIST: Hmm. Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Um-hmm. Umm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, um-hmm. Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: It makes sense in that kind of practical surface (ph) level. And it feels like it will be also the other wells (ph) to it, and not totally fair to myself (ph).
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Who exactly is out there?
THERAPIST: And but who [staying on that side] (ph)? Who -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: So his sister's children.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [0:16:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:18:44).
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: And you're not married, you don't have children, you're not weird (ph).
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: But they try and figure it out.
THERAPIST: And you're saying "I've never actually done this."
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Umm. That's the other like that I wonder about, possibly being afraid in this, too is there's a way something fearful of like your trust with Kelly has been rattled a little bit.
THERAPIST: No?
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess the part that I guess I'm kind of still trace is how it felt like you were really into her.
THERAPIST: Really excited by the relationship.
THERAPIST: And really falling.
THERAPIST: To a point. And then it felt like something happened.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, heartfelt.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: But maybe it's also not the perfect fit, then, you're saying; it's that there's something -
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm (ph)? [0:26:06]
THERAPIST: Umm. Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Is there also a left-out (ph) feeling right now because you're yearning for something?
THERAPIST: That will pull you that way?
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: You want to be liked for who you are today.
THERAPIST: It's really different.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. There may be layers that are actually the practical level (ph) of having them try this before and it's definitely not in [this hand] (ph).
THERAPIST: And there may be layers that are actually about the cultural difference that and it does make it different.
THERAPIST: And there may be more psychodynamic layers underneath that about can you ever feel fulfilled.
THERAPIST: With one person.
THERAPIST: Or is it just something -
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. And it doesn't have to mean it's only that, but that that could be at (ph) clear alongside of these other parts, too. [0:29:13]
THERAPIST: Feeling claustrophobic..
THERAPIST: So either yearning and she's unreachable and that's almost safe for you, because you certainly aren't hypo (ph) claustrophobic.
THERAPIST: Because you can't get her...
THERAPIST: But if she's there, then when you're (inaudible at 0:29:55) Kelly, I was saying, you know, is that she did say at some point she wanted to introduce you she started to think about her son.
THERAPIST: And that was big for you.
THERAPIST: And then first you came in here and it was -
THERAPIST: It was sort of like the world had turned around.
THERAPIST: In your relationship. [0:30:10]
THERAPIST: And I didn't know where that was headed but...
THERAPIST: It felt to me like, after that, you started withdrawing some.
THERAPIST: There may be other layers of, well (ph), if somebody wants to be with me and spend the rest of their life with me and wants to introduce their son, that you might go running, too.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Of course.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm, yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. [0:33:05]
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. There's a lot of guilt.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:33:26).
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm, um-hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Hmm.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. [0:39:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: It's the feeling you can do it in your own eyes.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: To please other people.
THERAPIST: Umm.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Just now, just a second ago. You cried before you said it's these headaches.
THERAPIST: These headaches, which you've had?
THERAPIST: Hmm. You (inaudible at 0:42:58).
THERAPIST: I mean headaches also can hold (ph) feelings in them (crosstalk). [0:43:06]
THERAPIST: Planning (ph) there's only so far.
THERAPIST: It's a (inaudible at 0:43:17).
THERAPIST: I think your dreams throw out about things coming out of your mouth and getting stuck in your mouth. Remember that?
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Oh.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:43:55).
THERAPIST: So one more week, Wednesday?
THERAPIST: (Chuckling). (inaudible at 0:44:03) for a while (chuckling).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [0:44:20]
THERAPIST: You mom had been sick.
THERAPIST: You get hard on yourself when you have a cold or allergies.
THERAPIST: How so? [00:02:24]
THERAPIST: I also wonder if you're not so sure of what to make of what's inside of you around it either. Do you want more or do you want less?
THERAPIST: You were in a place of wanting more and then she said she told her son about you. And all the sudden the next week you find yourself wanting less and saying I think I'm going to go see which way they are. Did you get claustrophobic in other words?
THERAPIST: I have a feeling of your, it's almost like simultaneously feeling smothered by whoever her is. She could be needy for you and that could be sort of frightening and causing you away and you could also feel needy for her and want a kind of closeness that you experienced in her saying well I don't know, like that, I don't know if this is going to work. So you're left feeling like you're the one who's sort of like the hot potato. Who is it? And it goes rapidly back and forth who it is. And it's just sort of staying there without no one moving away, but no one's moving that much closer either. And Bethany becomes a thin, safe respite in a way, there's nothing on the outside, there's no strings.
THERAPIST: It feels still like it hovers on the line of you're not so sure if you want more of her or less of her. [00:12:11]
THERAPIST: Well I think that's what you're saying is in some ways it's hard to know yet how you actually feel about Kelly the first time you asked do you want her in your life in the long run one way or not. When if what if this is a dynamic that would play itself out no matter what? Wanting more or less of someone?
THERAPIST: In other words, if it's not Kelly it could be with Bethany. You could use Bethany and this would do you want are you the one wanting more and she wants less or is she the one wanting more and you want less? It always seems to be there's some kind of -
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: The passing of time then can also be really important. We (ph) want to know who our love is.
THERAPIST: [New results.] (ph)
THERAPIST: Do you remember what you felt in the dream?
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:17:46] you blew the kisses with?
THERAPIST: It was kind of casual, kind of good-bye.
THERAPIST: For her specifically?
THERAPIST: It seems familiar. [00:18:11]
THERAPIST: There's separation from your family happening in the dream. You said [inaudible at 00:18:46].
THERAPIST: You, with what you know about yourself and your body and your anxiety, trying to help him with something, this outside thing, this ativan is not a part of your family, right? No one else is on the inside loop (ph). [Family community] (ph) on the outside blowing kisses to your aunt? Leaving?
THERAPIST: There's been such a tie of maybe an anxiety pulling you to your family, while your family [inaudible at 00:20:20], the way you described for so many years feeling like you just together, together, together, and how different that's been feeling lately as you're separating at least physically some and saying more to your mother in the heat of the moment what you're feeling. But I think it's also scary you're separate, it's lonely. [00:20:50]
THERAPIST: If the other side of claustrophobic enmeshment is total abandonment and aloneness, no wonder with Kelly it would be do I want more or do I want less, do I want more or do I want less? Neither one feels good. [00:22:09]
THERAPIST: You're struggling with being a process.
THERAPIST: Do you ever feel like here, this space, is too much? Like you feel claustrophobic here?
THERAPIST: If anything your more recent feeling's quite the opposite, what if something happened to me?
THERAPIST: Do you ever feel worried it's too important?
THERAPIST: This.
THERAPIST: I just now remember you saying when we started the process that was one of your fears, that somehow would start putting this, prioritizing this over life or something.
THERAPIST: Yes.
THERAPIST: Remember how stuck you were feeling in work?
THERAPIST: There was something of would this become just another thing that would pull me away from getting done what you wanted to get done? And in fact quite the opposite has happened. So maybe relationships in a way feel like it's a different part of experience.
THERAPIST: Maybe there's a way you're saying do other relationships right now become a kind of, almost pull you away from being more here -
THERAPIST: you say it as a circle -
THERAPIST: Right. That's the other way beyond putting it on total hold is living it and seeing what you feel every step of the way. That's something you can bring here and say this was hurtful, this felt sad, this made me feel claustrophobic -
THERAPIST: Being yourself in the relationship, what you're describing in talking to her. That feels like where you are and what feels important and then how she responds gives you information.
THERAPIST: So now that we've asked you what you're seeing, is can you be yourself and will she love you as yourself, if that's what your self wants to tell her? You weren't loved for yourself as a child over and over and over and over again. I think there's a part of you that's desperately longing, yearning for a relationship where that could actually happen, but I think there's another part that is as attached to the ways it did happen, where you end up feeling rejected or beneath or the playing out of that scenario over and over again. There's an adhesion to that as the way love works where there are people who are beneath and people who are superior in the story. Not equal people with mutual loving. You okay? [00:37:21]
THERAPIST: Tired of this, too.
THERAPIST: Yes, just because you don't feel like the world is against you doesn't mean it's not exhausting. It's exhausting.
THERAPIST: Is it strange for you to hear me say that I think that's healthy?
THERAPIST: Roger you've been going, going, going. The rush of new connections and new motivations, you've had to be exhausting yourself. Actually being tired is a good body signal telling you to slow down and get some rest. You haven't had a lot of rest before, for good reasons, good things happening, but. Get some more rest. See you tomorrow.
THERAPIST: What does it smell like?
THERAPIST: What does it smell like?
THERAPIST: So how with her you mean?
THERAPIST: With Kelly?
THERAPIST: You know, in a way it sounds like you suddenly, I guess this is going to be a kind of strange and [inaudible at 00:03:28] way to put it but it felt like but she's not my mother. She's not pressuring me for more.
THERAPIST: It isn't (ph) the same thing to be possible for her to be that. It's not you don't owe something.
THERAPIST: Of yourself.
THERAPIST: Which is? [00:04:04]
THERAPIST: I think what's so cool with what you're identifying is that there's, you're getting underneath the statement I think I just need some space to say that you're, one of the things that's driving that is feeling smothered. You've recognized you're not actually being smothered. In fact quite to the contrary. You're both are spending relatively little time with each other and she's not banging down saying let's spend a lot more. It's an anticipation of that that makes you freeze up inside and want to get away and get by yourself for a little while. The flip side is I think you can also feel hurt if she's not wanting a little bit more at one point, sort of [00:08:13]
THERAPIST: Yes, it sounds like you cannot take that as her it's not a rejection, but it's also kind of just how she is and -
THERAPIST: You totally know that, and yet it's also a limited response to that and does that work for you or not.
THERAPIST: I guess as you're talking it feels like there's something else that's going to be possible in the middle of latching onto other people's what they think and feel and every second being important and I just don't care.
THERAPIST: Well that's the feel it's had in the last maybe month and a half with Kelly that something started to happen where I can't tell what you want any more. How much of what is it she wants something that you don't like or you want something that she doesn't like? Sort of losing sight of your desire, sort of your boundary around what you want that could happen when let's say you want something that she doesn't. You can get hurt, you can say I don't want it, she's smothering me, all this kind of layers of defenses can build on top of that. Or say she wants something that you don't want. It could feel smothering then, you want to get away from her. It's just unclear whose feelings are whose a little bit right now. I think that's what you're when you say I don't care, you're saying trying to get back to what, what do I want from this, what's working for me, what's not? The hard part about knowing what you want is that sometimes you get disappointed. [00:15:47]
THERAPIST: Have you ever talked about them with her, casually?
THERAPIST: Sure.
THERAPIST: Yes, you can say do you foresee yourself having more kids? That's not specific to you.
THERAPIST: And if she said definitely not, I'm not getting, you know, then you might, you might want to know that. [00:20:51]
THERAPIST: Very quickly.
THERAPIST: It does get harder. A little more risks.
THERAPIST: if you're totally different.
THERAPIST: And it's almost driven then by who can you get to love you.
THERAPIST: As opposed to who do you love? Do you love that person?
THERAPIST: In other words it's a choice of a person that is still based on old ties to family members.
THERAPIST: Stunning but also somewhat crazy, each one of them.
THERAPIST: I mean that's the point is if beauty is such the overriding motivation because it proves something from the past, shows up your mother, makes yourself someone you never thought you could be in her eyes in some way then it's not actually picking the whole person you love.
THERAPIST: It seems different somehow.
THERAPIST: I think her as a choice it's always, at least to me it's been something new and different [inaudible at 00:29:32].
THERAPIST: Also you're describing being with people who are more self-aware in general than in the beginning, when you're, people, Samantha would be acting one way and have no understanding of your condition or something. [00:32:05]
THERAPIST: Without any ownership of it. It's one thing, everyone has some craziness -
THERAPIST: but even then the [inaudible at 00:32:23] masses say I don't believe I was like this yesterday. I'm so sorry I was in a mood or -
THERAPIST: Oh, that's right.
THERAPIST: It's crazy behavior.
THERAPIST: Well also the time wasn't so great.
THERAPIST: Like your relationship with your mother, sort of folding yourself into what she wanted and needed and then saying it's reality, not yet having what I think you probably have now is a more capacity to have your own mind and say actually the way you're acting is really disproportionate to what I did. It's not that I'm perfect; I apologized for that when I talked to you about it. It probably means there's something going on in our relationship if I [am doing that] (ph) -
THERAPIST: In other words -
THERAPIST: either I'm out of here because of your behavior or I kowtow, placate to your behavior and needs. Not the space to say, I was saying this the other day when you were describing a while ago when you were away with Kelly and your mother called and how you used the word bitch-slapped her a lot. And it was very violently harsh and sort of slamming the door on you can't do this to me, which I think your mother is so much like, it's like ground-hog day and you have had to be that harsh for her to get it. But, so because of that experience I don't know that you have inside you that you what would happen if you said I don't like the way you're acting, it's really a problem for me, but in the relationship?
THERAPIST: Not to her, not to her. In other words to Kelly or to Meredith or -
THERAPIST: Helping them.
THERAPIST: Yes, helping them is more, it's still a little bit like folding into the help they need instead of your equal, mature adult partner saying I really think I might need somebody who can say be more forthcoming with their feelings and -
THERAPIST: It's so different.
THERAPIST: Your conversations with her sound so, so different than they've ever been.
THERAPIST: And yet, I think that's what it feels to me like there's even more room for you to know what you could have, what you're worth. Like when I say you could ask her if she wants to have kids.
THERAPIST: You too. [00:44:04]
THERAPIST: Those were last night?
THERAPIST: Morphed into one? Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: I was just seeing the two sides of yourself, too the idea of finding the part of you that's like your father and, in some ways, it feels comforting having that inside you; and yet going back to the mainland of your mother and someone telling you that you don't have to go back there anymore. You have everything you need here.
THERAPIST: It seems like it didn't feel like it was only intended to be mean.
THERAPIST: It's different if you're feeling in the dream like there's some intention to help you instead of only to knock you down and destroy you, which it doesn't sound like it felt like that.
THERAPIST: What about being a giant looking down?
THERAPIST: You were trying not to step on people, too?
THERAPIST: So it was beautiful?
THERAPIST: It also makes me think a little bit about what we were talking about yesterday about relationships. Are you going back and forth having different people on the outside while you're doing this process. It is also that going back and forth between the mainland and an island. Should you be locating yourself in one place for a while or not?
THERAPIST: Again, some of your dream is going back and forth. picking things from here and bringing them there, not settling in one place. Someone tells you to and there's a split second where you see it and it's beautiful, but it's from way up high. Like what happens when you get closer?
THERAPIST: So what's bothering you about how you're feeling there?
THERAPIST: There's some feeling then you feel bad that in a way could feel like kind of keeping her around until you figure out what you want. [00:15:16]
THERAPIST: Actually there's a way you're very hard on yourself for what you're describing is happening with her. I actually think it's foreign territory for you. It's never happened for you that you would be in a relationship that your experience of it would be like, "I don't know where this is going to go. I don't know if this is the person." It's been kind of like 0 to 100 and then full out, madly in love or the peak experience of pursuit and wanting and then cut off. So then to be kind of in but not certain whether you want to get married to this person or whether someone else might be a better fit you end up feeling guilty about that instead of that being a part of having a normal way . . . [00:16:46]
THERAPIST: Probably.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying it's all good.
THERAPIST: I'm just saying it's new for you to be in the relationship and uncertain about it, rather than madly, head-over-heels it's as though it's all good or it's all bad. To be in a place of kind of taking the wholeness of her and the wholeness of you and where you are in your life and there's uncertainty. That's really new, rather than certainly wanting somebody out or certainly wanting somebody in. It doesn't mean okay, it's fine if you hook up with Bethany. That's something and that's something that you should have feelings about and that's something you might apologize for if she knew. That's something that you'd have feelings about. That's true, but it's just the general feeling of giving yourself some space to think and feel what being with this person is actually like for you is so new. [00:18:26]
THERAPIST: I guess I'm saying I think it's more specific than oh, here you go catastrophizing again. The specific of it is that to be in a relationship where it's uncertain. [00:19:21]
THERAPIST: Right. Or that one time you don't like this or you don't like this. You're trying to figure out what works, what doesn't.
THERAPIST: And "who the fuck cares" can get like a defensive retreat at its extreme, like "cancel the show", "just don't see her tonight". It could feel like, "I just don't care. I'm cool with this." But there's fear in it, too. It's different than being with her and saying, "I'll be okay with who I am here."
THERAPIST: In a way, it's like there's a new phase of your process here, I think, ushering in that in some ways is echoing in the relationship with Kelly. There's this initial rush of good, healthy, new stuff happening, but now what? It's sort of like, "Okay, so now what happens?" You've gone through a honeymoon of being in the new, good stuff. Now who are you as a person when you're not in the mood to have sex or when you don't even feel like kissing that much or when you want to tell her about your analysis or something? [00:24:23]
THERAPIST: And beat you up.
THERAPIST: It's a great analogy that you get let out and you start out running and it's like, "Which way?"
THERAPIST: But then you start getting tired and you get sick. You've been staying up until four in the morning doing things, but you get tired and you have to slow down and then you realize that you're out and now what do you with this life if it's yours?
THERAPIST: That's not what everyone did when they got out.
THERAPIST: And yet, you're also alluding to there being other fears there of can you really do what you want? If you want to be with Kelly tonight and were in a bad space, would it be okay?
THERAPIST: So another thing that's tremendously new in contrast to being in the prison is the warden telling you what to do. It's just very, very clear. There's no choice. You just do it every day. You are struggling with the freedom of choice, which feels good; but it can also be really sad because as soon as you make a choice you're letting go of other choices. And you are also the one who made that choice. If someone just makes you do it you can be angry at them, but you don't have to feel your own conflict about your own choice.
THERAPIST: It's your dream again going back to the mainland and someone is telling you, "No. Stay here." But then you want to go to the mainland. Is it going to be okay if you stay in one place? What will you regret? [00:34:29]
THERAPIST: Although your fears might tell you that you need to bring things with you. For example, if you could take this from Bethany and this from Kelly and this from her and sort of put an amalgam together, could there be some perfect fit as a fantasy? Like if you could bring what you needed from the mainland to this island, which of course is a fantasy. It doesn't work that way. Any one person is going to be disappointing sometimes. (pause) [00:36:29] I think what's hard about that is it includes her, whoever she is, but it also includes you. Like what if someone is disappointed in you? What if you see Kelly and you have a night where she's just "Ugh. What kind of mood is he in?"
THERAPIST: Of course it is. You don't have an experience in you of that being an ordinary part of a loving relationship, that people get angry and disappoint each other. That is so much of what you had the onslaught of criticism and attack and disappointment that I think one of the things that developed was the fantasy that there was a place where that never happens. And that's not real. [00:37:33] (pause)
THERAPIST: Of course. How could you not go back to that when for so long that's what you had? That was it. It's not how much we love Brian and everything about him and then sometimes you make an error or a goof or a mistake and you get helped with that or they're disappointed in your behavior one day or something. But that all happens on a bedrock of knowing how much you are loved. It just wasn't there so I think it feels to you like if Kelly would be disappointed in whatever it is, some little thing, it's like poking a hole in the balloon and all of the feelings about you disappear instead of, no, what you have together doesn't get erased if she's mad one day or doesn't win in one day. [00:39:29] (pause) That's what we were saying a little about Meredith yesterday and thinking about either you're a man in love or over, not the space of ordinary relationships where you end the relationship and things happen. You get bothered by each other and you work on it and then it gets better, hopefully, and then it gets worse again.
THERAPIST: All of these different images of perfection versus reality. Next time.
THERAPIST: You, too. Bye.
THERAPIST: You stayed awake for the whole night?
THERAPIST: Oh, my goodness.
THERAPIST: It's very scary.
THERAPIST: Getting out wasn't solving the restlessness?
THERAPIST: I'm so sorry I didn't get your message until this morning. I don't know if you got my follow up message later.
THERAPIST: Today I was. I didn't call until today.
THERAPIST: There's no message? Huh.
THERAPIST: You didn't get the message. All I said was and I don't know if I even mentioned this to you because it didn't affect our sessions I was out of the office yesterday and the second half of Monday. I usually would have done this. I think with all the commotion I guess I didn't check my messages yesterday. I didn't get it until today and just didn't want to worry you. The worst part of what can be scary for people when this happens is not being able to get in touch with . . .
THERAPIST: Too nice?
THERAPIST: If it's not reciprocated.
THERAPIST: Be at the race?
THERAPIST: They wouldn't imagine you were there?
THERAPIST: Although it seems like you are picking up something that you wish she were doing more.
THERAPIST: I was wondering.
THERAPIST: You can't see me too well without them?
THERAPIST: Connection.
THERAPIST: And you don't even sometimes know what it's going to be like until it happens.
THERAPIST: Just think about your own experiences [ ], for example, of stereotyping and [ ] (inaudible at 00:13:50) and aggression. You've lived that first-hand. [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: I didn't hear that.
THERAPIST: Also this feeling of your reaching out and no one reaching out for you. There are all these logistical or practical reasons why it didn't happen, but I think that's a feeling you know anyway.
THERAPIST: You don't know if it was in their minds to check on you.
THERAPIST: Well you can't end up telling . . . Is what you want reasonable and in the range of normal things you want to ask for or . . . [00:18:02]
THERAPIST: You don't know. That's the thing.
THERAPIST: I don't know. I don't feel like I know enough about what you're describing that it would sound unreasonable. [00:19:03]
THERAPIST: Did she call you after Darien, for example?
THERAPIST: You told her about it? Okay.
THERAPIST: It does sound like you wish she would hold you in mind a little bit more and show you that she's holding you in mind.
THERAPIST: Show me. [00:21:01]
THERAPIST: There are ways that it's so different than prior relationships. You see that. It seems healthier, just good. She's healthy; she's good; she's relatively normal. You're intimate with each other in mature needs, but there are some other ways that there's something similar happening. She might not be quite as aloof, but you find yourself with someone who has already been married and has a kid, who has a career, whose focus is here, and is absolutely does sound like she's wanting to have you be a part of her life right now; but it's different than being with somebody who is not in that stage. So something is spraying out again. [00:22:24]
THERAPIST: Or maybe that isn't good enough for you.
THERAPIST: Whereas it once might have felt personal that you're number four after the job, the child, the house.
THERAPIST: It's sounding like this is kind of what she would do in any relationship. That's where she is.
THERAPIST: Right. This is as far as it's gotten for any relationship in a long time.
THERAPIST: And that's real.
THERAPIST: I imagine some of those feelings could come up here, too, for you reaching out to me and was I reaching out to you? Where was I?
THERAPIST: I got your message and I felt terrible that I hadn't checked. It had nothing to do with the race. I had this thing yesterday that was a personal thing that I had to be at all day. It sort of took me away from regular life. As it was, even from this. I was out of the loop in many ways, staying in touch where people were with that. I feel awful.
THERAPIST: I appreciated your reaching out, caring. It's scary when you don't know; people you care about; where they are and if they're okay.
THERAPIST: On top of all the feelings the week before that we were talking about what if something happened to me? We were just talking about this and then this happens. It just makes sense that that could be alive as this becomes more important and feels valuable to you. To be continued.
THERAPIST: You were watching it on TV?
THERAPIST: What was hitting you about it?
THERAPIST: What do you remember?
THERAPIST: The dreams all have that feeling in them of not feeling comfortably at home anywhere, kind of alienated, disoriented.
THERAPIST: Searching for it.
THERAPIST: They do. That's what I was thinking about.
THERAPIST: There as been a time of reaching what's felt like kind of a plateau that's been a good plateau. There's all this good stuff happening with your work and, in some ways, why rock that boat? It's been going so well, and yet as your freedom to be yourself has settled some, it is unsettling in a way. What happens next, now that you have more of this? Where is home? Who do you feel at home with? Or who wants you at home with them if this is who you are? [00:10:09]
THERAPIST: We've been tapering how much you've been here yesterday and today. There may be logical reasons why you've missed half a session, but there may be emotional ones, too.
THERAPIST: I wonder. We started talking yesterday about being aware, as you were last week, about actually being maybe attached to me or to this or to this space and then thinking about what happens if it's gone. Then this event happens on Monday that literally, literally that fear peaks not just in metaphor or fantasy, which could happen anyway but the other layer. What anxiety gets stirred about meeting someone; meeting your mother in childhood? Is she there? Does she want to be there? Will she be there? [00:13:12]
THERAPIST: How maybe suddenly losing your dad cemented something that was already stirring in there anyway about being abandoned, unimportant, left, alienated from your family; and he, in some ways, you've always described as kind of a tie that was a good one in your family for you and then to lose that. (pause) [00:14:53]
THERAPIST: No, I hear you. I hear you. It's like it feels like you're alienated or like you're the kid.
THERAPIST: Which sounds like I always get the feeling when you lived in Baltimore, the way you described feeling like an outsider so much from the mainstream community and an only child and alone a lot. How do other people have it together and eat salads with lime juice? (pause)
THERAPIST: It sounds really restricted, actually. It doesn't sound that healthy.
THERAPIST: Almost like waking up to the news on Monday.
THERAPIST: Which is really different from "I look down on that job." In other words, you've been saying how much sadness there is about the decisions you made and decisions you didn't make based on what you were expected to do and what your mother would approve of very concretely. You had to be a dentist and everything else was going to be looked down upon. Even an artist she looks down on in some way, even though she's an artist herself, because it's not some square, cookie-cutter of what would be a successful son in her eyes. [00:24:03] That closes down, I can imagine, a lot of things like going and getting a bartending job in college. So many ordinary doors like that get shut out of disapproval.
THERAPIST: You'd be a great bartender. [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: That's really, really sad.
THERAPIST: We've got to stop.
THERAPIST: Quite a week?
THERAPIST: How are you?
THERAPIST: What was it like for you Friday?
THERAPIST: Oh, my goodness. This was at night, you mean? [00:01:53]
THERAPIST: From the starting point of hearing the noises and then seeing them, I would think that alone is . . .
THERAPIST: Because you don't know what's happening at that point at all.
THERAPIST: How many there are. Had you been asleep?
THERAPIST: You went down to get your mom?
THERAPIST: He's going to end up in someone's yard or house.
THERAPIST: It's very, very scary. I thought of you even with the police knocking on people's doors. I mean I know they're there for good reason and they're there to help and protect, but just police alone have been a form of trauma.
THERAPIST: Even that though. It's not just that he could come to your house, you're watching this happen. He could be right there.
THERAPIST: Not far, right?
THERAPIST: Before all this happened you had been in a space for a week or week and a half where it was like coming down off of the flow of tremendous energy about the two sites connecting. You've been pushing and pushing and working and actually been productive and staying up late. You had your hand in so many things moving forward. How could you keep that pace up forever? Impossible. And you got sick a little bit; you got tired just letting your body decompress. And then as you're decompressing you're aware that there's just a lot of other stuff there feelings about relationships. We were talking about Kelly and Bethany. Going back and forth and just feeling really confused, I think, about what you feel and what happens the closer you get to somebody that makes you then sort of look elsewhere. You think a lot of confusion as new things were getting opened up for the first time and then this happens. [00:15:04] I could see in that state that this just added fuel to the fire, being totally turned upside down and inside out for a while. (long pause) [00:15:58]
THERAPIST: Maybe your metaphor about being let out of prison and, again, the coincidence of this event happening right now as you're really getting into this process and, I think, more opening up about what happens when you're really known to another person, whether it's me, whether it's Kelly as the relationship grows deeper. [00:17:07] And you're actually being your whole self and not just editing and picking and choosing what to say and who to be. She's being her whole self, but this event, in a way, is filling you with a massive amount of terror. Again, that's something else in a way, but that's what's there lurking right now. "Is this going to be terrifying? Will I get hurt if I get close to her?" the way I think you have been in the past in your childhood.
THERAPIST: Will you hurt her. Right. Are you the terrorist? Are you going to get terrified?
THERAPIST: I think there's so much of your life because of your relationship with your mother that has given you those two options. Either you get hurt or you hurt someone else; and if that's the choice, hurting someone else is in some ways preferable to getting hurt. But it's like there's nothing else in the middle of those two. (pause) [00:19:20]
THERAPIST: I also get the feeling that there's a lot of feeling. You know you say sometimes you hit these moments where you're watching something and all this feeling comes out, like a release almost, and then you feel better. It has that feeling to me, like there's something dammed up inside.
THERAPIST: Even just from what you went through Friday. [00:20:12]
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: Both times it's feeling a kind of being cared for.
THERAPIST: And yet, you also feel something when you think about the good outweighing the bad.
THERAPIST: That has an ethic and a meaning to it beyond "life is meaningless and we could all die tomorrow."
THERAPIST: Like your dad.
THERAPIST: Friday could bring up your father. [00:24:13]
THERAPIST: Work-wise it makes sense. In relationships, I think it feels more confusing what this kind of threat, loss, conflict . . . [00:25:11]
THERAPIST: And then what happened?
THERAPIST: You felt good coming in, though?
THERAPIST: You feel so sad to me. [00:28:04]
THERAPIST: It isn't even an appearance thing. It just feels like there's just the weight of the world on your shoulders right now with this whatever it is this is stirring about your father, like the whole family history of genocide and trauma and torture. There's a lot in this, Brian. It's hard enough just be trying to remember in here in this process and kind of at your own pace getting yourself through it, but a real thing actually just happened in real time that is like these other things. It not only reminds you and brings you back to the feelings of these other experiences, but is another one you are experiencing right now. Like all of the feelings after your father's death that led you to cut yourself off and kind of meander lost into the world out to Oregon, just aimless and disassociated. [00:29:15] I can imagine that, hopefully, on a smaller scale and, hopefully, caught that's kind of what we're here to do and help you with but I can imagine that being a piece of what's happening right now. You have enough work under your belt that there's this other life that you have going on that feels like it's yours and you're attending to it, but how could this not be triggering for you of some pretty dramatic feelings? Not to mention where you were before this happened in this process.
THERAPIST: I think when I say "of course" and "no wonder", it's in part just trying to say to the part of you that gets really anxious about where you are today that it would be weird if you weren't here today, given your history. [00:31:27]
THERAPIST: You can go back to Dr. Carlton, but I don't think this is something that we should medicate. This is what you would do if something like this happened. It was starting to happen after Monday and you will come out of this, probably actually sooner than you think.
THERAPIST: Totally. I hear you. That's what you're saying, "These are the things I keep trying to tell myself." That's part of what you're doing.
THERAPIST: Even being interested in what your experience is of this instead of judging it.
THERAPIST: You were surrounded by judges as a kid. So many judgments from your mother and from your mother's whole side of the family. Things are either good/bad; good/bad; good/bad not just interest in your experience. (pause) [00:32:56] I think that's why so often you'll move to wanting to judge yourself like, "This is bad that this is happening to me." And then you say, "But the good thing is that I'm doing this." It's like things have to be judged as good or as bad; and there's something kind of comforting and familiar about knowing whether it gets to go in the good column or it gets to go in the bad column. I just think that's what your family did, but it's not about knowing who you are. It's not about knowing, it's about categorizing and black-and-white kind of thinking. (pause) [00:34:16]
THERAPIST: To where?
THERAPIST: You were trying to gather it into all of your trauma.
THERAPIST: Meaning writing? Or not getting people together?
THERAPIST: I think waiting for the next bad thing to happen is trauma. That is a symptom of being traumatized. That's what hyper-vigilance is. It takes many different forms. The expectation that something really bad is going to happen and just waiting for it. It's in some ways an adaptive way of being if you're used to really bad things that keep happening to you. If you're at least prepared for them, that's what it's meant for in a way. But, again, why would you not be waiting for that right now? And why also, for example, would it not freeze you up from leading a regular, humdrum life? That's what happened when you were 20. If horrible, horrible things happen, your whole system starts responding as though you're there for survival and waiting for the next blow. [00:38:22] It's not about, then, forward thinking and productivity and planning and being a pro-active person. Reactivity is what's important when you're in trauma for safety, so I could see also this feeling as you look down on yourself that you're not doing it. That's what happens when your brain is preoccupied with staying safe. (pause) And your brain became very preoccupied with staying safe as you became really psychosomatic after your father's death. All the fears about "Now me, am I having a heart attack? Am I getting cancer?" That's a form of hyper-vigilant waiting for the thing that's going to go wrong in your own body. [00:39:25]
THERAPIST: It makes perfect sense if, when you loved that much, you got hurt.
THERAPIST: That's very, very sad. (pause) Tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Thanks.
THERAPIST: You said it was a crazy night.
THERAPIST: Yes!
THERAPIST: Oh!
THERAPIST: You look like you're looking to me to judge you or (pause) give some verdict.
THERAPIST: No regrets.
THERAPIST: So what's the problem?
THERAPIST: One way you're putting it today, the predicament in relationships, is that maybe you're just not capable of loving because you've never loved yourself. (pause) Some mood spaces you can get into it feels like, "That's fine! No skin off anyone's back. Who's getting hurt here really if no one knows?" But it's different than the way you were putting it it's very similar but it's slightly different on Wednesday is what if you can't love someone because you've been hurt and there's always this fear of being hurt again? [00:09:06]
THERAPIST: They are.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm just picking up on the one...the way you're talking about it today. The spin on it is so, "C'est la vie!"
THERAPIST: No it doesn't sound like that.
THERAPIST: There's something new and good that feels like you relinquishing caring about something so much in a way that feels freeing.
THERAPIST: Some of the not caring sounds like it feels freeing and different and some of the not caring sounds like it's like a relief to go back to not caring so much as opposed to actually having to grapple with what it means to be in a relationship you're working on. It gets more intimate and harrier and messier and has feelings, a lot of complicated feelings. You're in this relationship with someone right now who herself struggles with the same thing. You were in a relationship with Julia (sp), someone who struggled with the same thing. So that makes for (pause)...it's quite a situation if you're both wanting to be close but terrified of it. You're both going to get hurt by that other person and maybe that just gets too exhausting. So there's some part of you that's just going back to just, "Forget it." Just care less, have sex when you want to have sex, be free. It probably feels like a relief from the exhaustion of trying to figure out where you are and where she is and where you are and where she is. [00:16:16]
THERAPIST: Like she's not starting to move at all, like compromise in changing her life a little bit to include you more? [00:17:06]
THERAPIST: Do it more on her terms.
THERAPIST: This is going to sound like a strange question but why stay together then?
THERAPIST: You do?
THERAPIST: You know, it's funny what's implicit I don't know if she ever speaks to this, Margaret Show (ph) but what's implicit in "I don't ever want to have a baby because I don't want to love something that much" you assume she's talking about the baby but to get the baby you have to love someone else enough to want to do that.
THERAPIST: I don't think it would feel as conflictual as actually saying, "I want to marry this person and have a baby with her."
THERAPIST: And it's part of you.
THERAPIST: The slate is clean. You have to prove it again. Like that doesn't feel as strongly to you.
THERAPIST: No?
THERAPIST: At least what it's doing, it sounds like, is it's slowing things down enough that you have some time to really think and feel more about what you want. And I think there's a way of talking about it today as if though, "Okay, it's wrapped up in a nice, neat little box. This is me and that's who I am so I might as well just accept it."
THERAPIST: I think we're saying the same thing. The only thing that I may be responding to is in other words you're saying there's something that's just coming to terms with who you are today, what's actually happened, what hasn't happened, how old you are, what the circumstances are, and the complexity of it. But the way you're talking about it right now it's as though that's the end. That's it. It's a done deal. This is who I am.
THERAPIST: What do you do with this?
THERAPIST: Well, you're not alone here.
THERAPIST: It is and it isn't. It's still someone...you can still feel vulnerable or not so vulnerable. Or be here or not be here.
THERAPIST: No, you didn't.
THERAPIST: Well the more you address...you will sometimes address the things that are less scary to address first and then when those are sort of good, "This parts good. Now this parts good. Now what?"
THERAPIST: It feels good to be here.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well it's also not like your mother in a way. (inaudible) holding your mind that you were really concerned about him and then it's just poof gone and you actually invested some emotional energy in that.
THERAPIST: It's not...I mean I didn't think "rude." I was interested in it, where that...what's the feeling?
THERAPIST: Not really. Just kind of random. You want me to...?
THERAPIST: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah sometimes it will take me a couple weeks, [not necessarily] (ph) the next day.
THERAPIST: Yeah I mean, would you rather...you're paid every two weeks? How are you paid?
THERAPIST: I mean, let me know if you ever give me a check if you want me to wait a few days.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, no problem.
THERAPIST: Okay, I know you didn't pay last week.
THERAPIST: Because you missed Friday so twice for then...
THERAPIST: Twice this week and then this session. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: If you call and cancel I can count it towards the vacation days.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you too. [00:52:11]
